http://maxblumenthal.com/2010/07/the-summer-camp-of-destruction-israeli-high-schoolers-join-in-the-destructionrof-a-
bedouin-town/
1
The "Summer Camp Of Destruction:" Israeli High Schoolers
Assist The Razing Of A Bedouin Town
On 07.31.10, By Max Blumenthal
AL-ARAKIB, ISRAEL — On July 26, Israeli police demolished 45 buildings in the unrecognized Bedouin village of al-
Arakib, razing the entire village to the ground to make way for a Jewish National Fund forest. The destruction was part of
a larger project to force the Bedouin community of the Negev away from their ancestral lands and into seven Indian
reservation-style communities the Israeli government has constructed for them. The land will then be open for Jewish
settlers, including young couples in the army and those who may someday be evacuated from the West Bank after a
peace treaty is signed. For now, the Israeli government intends to uproot as many villages as possible and erase them
from the map by establishing "facts on the ground" in the form of JNF forests. (See video of of al-Arakib's
demolition here).
Moments before the destruction of the Bedouin village of al-Arakib, Israeli high school age police volunteers lounge on
furniture taken from a family's home. [The following four photos are by Ata Abu Madyam of Arab Negev News.
One of the most troubling aspects of the destruction of al-Arakib was a report by CNN that the hundreds of Israeli riot
police who stormed the village were accompanied by "busloads of cheering civilians." Who were these civilians and why
didn't CNN or any outlet investigate further?
I traveled to al-Arakib yesterday with a delegation from Ta'ayush, an Israeli group that promotes a joint Arab-Jewish
struggle against the occupation. The activists spent the day preparing games and activities for the village's traumatized
children, helping the villagers replace their uprooted olive groves, and assisting in the reconstruction of their demolished
homes. In a massive makeshift tent where many of al-Arakib's residents now sleep, I interviewed village leaders about the
identity of the cheering civilians. Each one confirmed the presence of the civilians, describing how they celebrated the
demolitions. As I compiled details, the story grew increasingly horrific. After interviewing more than a half dozen 'elders of
the village, I was able to finally identify the civilians in question. What I discovered was more disturbing than I had
ima. med.
Israeli police youth volunteers pick through the belongings an al-Arakib family
Arab Negev News publisher Ata Abu Madyam supplied me with a series of photos he took of the civilians in action. They
depicted Israeli high school students who appeared to have volunteered as members of the Israeli police civilian guard (I
'am working on identifying some participants by name). Prior to the demolitions, the student volunteers were sent into the
villagers' homes to extract their furniture and belongings. A number of villagers including Madyam told me the volunteers
smashed windows and mirrors in their homes and defaced family photographs with crude drawings. Then they lounged
around on the furniture of al-Arakib residents in plain site of the owners. Finally, according to Matyam, the volunteers
celebrated while bulldozers destroyed the homes.
"What we learned from the summer camp of destruction," Madyam remarked, "is that Israeli youth are not being educated
on democracy, they are being raised on racism." (The cover of the latest issue of Madyam's Arab Negev News features a
photo of Palestinians being expelled to Jordan in 1948 juxtaposed with a photo of a family fleeing al-Arakib last week. The
headline reads, "Nakba 2010.")
0
According to residents of al-Arakib, the youth volunteers vandalized homes throughout the village
The Israeli civilian guard, which incorporates 70,000 citizens including youth as young as 15 (about 15% of Israeli police
volunteers are teenagers), is one of many programs designed to incorporate Israeli children into the state's military
apparatus. It is not hard to imagine what lessons the high school students who participated in the leveling of al-Arakib took
from their experience, nor is it especially difficult to predict what sort of citizens they will become once they reach'
adulthood. Not only are they being indoctrinated to swear blind allegiance to the military, they are learning to treat the
Arab outclass as less than human. The volunteers' behavior toward Bedouins, who are citizens of Israel and serve loyally
in Israeli army combat units despite widespread racism, was strikingly reminiscent of the behavior of settler youth in
Hebron who pelt Palestinian shopkeepers in the old city with eggs, rocks and human waste. If there is a distinction
between the two cases, it is that the Hebron settlers act as vigilantes while the teenagers of Israeli civilian guard vandalize
Arab property as agents of the state.
The spectacle of Israeli youth helping destroy al-Arakib helps explain why 56% of Jewish Israeli high school students do
not believe Arabs should be allowed to serve in the Knesset — why the next generation wants apartheid. Indeed, the
widespread indoctrination of Israeli youth by the military apparatus is a central factor in Israel's authoritarian trend. It
would be difficult for any adolescent boy to escape from an experience like al-Arakib, where adults in heroic warror garb
encoura e him to articipate in and gloat over acts of massive destruction, with even a trace of democratic values.
Youth volunteers extract belongings from village homes as bulldozers move in
As for the present condition of Israeli democracy, it is essential to consider the way in which the state pits its own citizens
against one another, enlisting the Jewish majority as conquerers while targeting the Arab others as, in the wordsI of Zionist
founding father Chaim Weizmann, "obstacles that had to be cleared on a difficult path." Historically, only failing states
have encouraged such corrosive dynamics to take hold. That is why the scenes from al-Arakib, from the demolished
homes to the uprooted gardens to the grinning teens who joined the mayhem, can be viewed as much more than the
destruction of a village. They are snapshots of the phenomenon that is laying Israeli society as a whole to waste
0
...and the destruction begins
---

sbwhoeop
Monday, August 2, 2010 12:37 PM
fyi
Go Back
Print this page
Skip to content
Subscribe to The New Yorker
C3
The Political Scene
The Empty Chamber
Just how broken is the Senate?
Seventy-six nominees for judgeships and executive posts have been approved by committees but, because of blocks,
haven't come up for a vote in the full Senate, leaving courtrooms idle and jobs unfilled across the upper levels of the
Obama Administration....
The tally of cloture votes reflects only a small fraction of senatorial obstruction. Three hundred and forty-five bills passed
by the House have been prevented from even coming up for debate in the Senate....
by George Packer August 9, 2010
Text Size:
Small Text
Medium Text
Large Text
Print E-Mail Feeds
Cit and watch us for seven days," one senator says of the deadlocked chamber. "You know what you'll see happening?
Nothing."
'This is just one of those days when you want to throw up your hands and say, 'What in the world are we doing?'"
Senator Claire McCaskill, the Missouri Democrat, said.
"It's unconscionable," Carl Levin, the senior Democratic senator from Michigan, said. "The obstructionism has become
mindless."
The Senators were in the Capitol, sunk into armchairs before the marble fireplace in the press lounge, which is directly
behind the Senate chamber. It was four-thirty on a Wednesday afternoon. McCaskill, in a matching maroon jacket and
top, looked exasperated; Levin glowered over his spectacles.
"Also, it's a dumb rule in itself," McCaskill said. "It's time we started looking at some of these rules."
She was referring to Senate Rule XXVI, Paragraph 5, which requires unanimous consent for committees and
subcommittees to hold hearings after two in the afternoon while the Senate is in session. Both Levin and McCaskill had
scheduled hearings that day for two-thirty. Typically, it wouldn't be difficult to get colleagues to waive the rule; a general
and an admiral had flown halfway around the world to appear before Levin's Armed Services Committee, and McCaskill's
Subcommittee on Contracting Oversight of the Homeland Security Committee was investigating the training of Afghan
police. But this was March 24th, the day after President Barack Obama signed the health-care-reform bill, in a victory
ceremony at the White House; it was also the day that the Senate was to vote on a reconciliation bill for health-care
reform, approved by the House three nights earlier, which would retroactively remove the new law's most embarrassing
sweetheart deals and complete the yearlong process of passing universal health care. Republicans, who had fought the
bill as a bloc, were in no mood to make things easy.
So, four hours earlier, when Levin went to the Senate floor and asked for consent to hold his hearing, Senator Richard
Burr, Republican of North Carolina, and a member of Levin's committee, had refused. "I have no personal objection to
continuing," Burr said. But, he added, "there is objection on our side of the aisle. Therefore, I would have to object."
Burr had to object on behalf of his party because he was the only Republican in the chamber when Levin spoke. In
general, when senators give speeches on the floor, their colleagues aren't around, and the two or three who might be
present aren't listening. They're joking with aides, or e-mailing Twitter ideas to their press secretaries, or getting their first
look at a speech they're about to give before the eight unmanned cameras that provide a live feed to C-SPAN2. The
presiding officer of the Senate—freshmen of the majority party take rotating, hour-long shifts intended to introduce them to
the ways of the institution—sits in his chair on the dais, scanning his BlackBerry or reading a Times article about the
Senate. Michael Bennet, a freshman Democrat from Colorado, said, "Sit and watch us for seven days—just watch the
floor. You know what you'll see happening? Nothing. When I'm in the chair, I sit there thinking, I wonder what they're
doing in China right now?"
Between speeches, there are quorum calls, time killers in which a Senate clerk calls the roll at the rate of one name every
few minutes. The press gallery, above the dais, is typically deserted, as journalists prefer to hunker down in the press
lounge, surfing the Web for analysis of current Senate negotiations; television screens alert them if something of interest
actually happens in the chamber. The only people who pay attention to a speech are the Senate stenographers. On this
afternoon, two portly bald men in suits stood facing the speaker from a few feet away, tapping at the transcription
machines, which resembled nineteenth-century cash registers, slung around their necks. The Senate chamber is an
intimate room where men and women go to talk to themselves for the record.
Like many other aspects of senatorial procedure, Rule XXVI, Paragraph 5 is a relic from the days when senators had to
hover around their desks to know what was happening on the floor during the main afternoon debate. (The desks, some
built as long ago as 1819, are mahogany, and their lids lift up, like those in an old schoolhouse; the desks of the Majority
and Minority Leader are still equipped with brass spittoons.) In the press lounge, McCaskill said, with light sarcasm,
"Somebody told me the rule is to make sure people pay attention to what's happening on the floor during debate and not
be distracted by committee work. Clearly, it's an old rule."
The Republicans had turned this old rule into a new means of obstruction. There would be no hearings that afternoon; the
general and the admiral would have to come back another day. Like investment bankers on Wall Street, senators these
days direct much of their creative energy toward the manipulation of arcane rules and loopholes, scoring short-term
successes while magnifying their institution's broader dysfunction.
Around five o'clock, the chamber began to fill, as the reconciliation bill came up for a vote; there were twenty-three
amendments pending, all from Republicans, and perhaps many more to come. Ordinarily, debate and voting on an
amendment might take two legislative days, but under the rules of the reconciliation bill the senators were to dispatch the
amendments one after another, as in a hot-dog-eating contest, with a minute of debate for each side. The goal was to
finish the bill by the end of the evening, so that senators wouldn't miss a day of their spring recess—apparently, the only
thing worse than a government takeover of the health-care system. The usual longueurs of the Senate, where forty
minutes can tick away on the antique clock above the rear double doors without a word's being spoken, were about to
yield to a frenzy. Harry Reid, the Majority Leader, from Nevada, had predicted that the process, known as Vote-O-Rama,
would go past two in the morning, and had warned senators to stay close to the chamber.
Max Baucus, of Montana, the manager of the bill for the Democrats, rose and said, "This is the first time in recent memory
that a reconciliation bill has all the amendments on one side only. These are clearly amendments designed to kill the
reconciliation and, therefore, kill health-care reform. So I very much hope that all of these amendments are defeated."
Tall, gaunt Judd Gregg, of New Hampshire, the bill's Republican manager, took the floor. "The position on the other side
of the aisle is: no amendments allowed, even if they are good," he said. Indignation rouged his cheeks, and his voice rose
half an octave. "Obviously, they presume the Republican Party is an inconvenience. The democratic process is an
inconvenience. It also appears, considering the opposition to this out in America, that the American people are an
inconvenience."
The Senate chamber is laid out in four concentric semicircles, with adjacent desks almost touching on the crowded
Democratic side, and the desks of the much smaller Republican minority spaced loosely apart. The design is meant to
emphasize the senators' unity. But Baucus and Gregg avoided eye contact across the six feet of aisle that now divides the
chamber into two constantly warring factions. Senators are required, by custom, to speak of one another in the third
person, directing their anger and sarcasm through whichever poor freshman happens to be the presiding officer at the
moment. Rule XIX, Paragraphs 2 and 3—one of the original rules drawn from Thomas Jefferson's "Manual of
Parliamentary Practice"—bars senators from imputing unworthy conduct or motives to another senator, and from insulting
any senator's state. But there is no rule against finger-wagging, and Baucus wagged his at Gregg while shouting at Al
Franken, of Minnesota, who had started a shift in the presiding officer's chair: "Mr. President, make no mistake, the intent
of every single one of the amendments offered on the other side of the aisle is to kill health-care reform. . . . A senator on
the other side of the aisle stood up and said that this is hopefully the President's Waterloo. They want to kill health-care
reform!"
The voice of Stuart Smalley filled the chamber: "The time of the senator has expired."
For the next nine hours, the chamber became the stage of a theatrical whose ending, like almost everything that happens
on the Senate floor, was known in advance to all. The Republican goal in Vote-O-Rama was to embarrass the Democrats
while appearing to suggest useful changes; the Democratic goal was to prevent any change to the bill, so that it wouldn't
have to return to the House, where it might be voted down. Several of the Republican amendments had been designed to
make Democrats look hypocritical, by forcing them to vote against policies that the Party typically supports. One
amendment, for example, declared that the health-care bill could not be linked to a tax hike on individuals making less
than two hundred thousand dollars a year. Other amendments were more nakedly partisan, and outlandish. David Vitter, a
Louisiana Republican, proposed an amendment that repealed the entire law. Senator Tom Coburn, a Republican
obstetrician from Oklahoma, introduced an amendment to insure that veterans diagnosed with mental illness would not be
denied the right to own firearms, and another to prevent "convicted child molesters, rapists, and sex offenders" from
buying erectile-dysfunction drugs with taxpayer funds. Coburn got through the minute he was allotted to explain his Viagra
amendment without cracking a smile. "This is not a game amendment," he insisted. "It actually saves money."
So many senators snickered that the presiding officer banged his gavel for order.
"The amendment offered by the senator from Oklahoma makes a mockery of this Senate," Baucus declared. "It is a crass
political stunt aimed at making thirty-second commercials, not public policy." Baucus asked for the yeas and nays, and a
clerk called the roll at a ragged pace. "Mr. Coburn, Mr. Cochran, Ms. Collins." Thirty-five-second pause. "Mr. Conrad, Mr.
Corker." Ten seconds. "Mr. Cornyn." Senators pay no attention to the sound of their name; they cast votes when they're
so inclined—wandering in late, shuffling down the chamber's gentle blue-carpeted steps to the swarm of colleagues
milling about in the well, where the clerks sit at a table, and then holding a finger up or down. At one point, John McCain—
now just one of a hundred senators and struggling to stay in office—spent half a minute waving stiff-armed, trying to catch
the eye of a clerk so he could cast his vote. In the end, two Democrats—Evan Bayh, of Indiana, and Ben Nelson, of
Nebraska—joined the Republicans in opposing Viagra for sex offenders. The amendment was defeated.
The carpeting in the chamber absorbs voices, and during the long night one of the few that rose above the muffled drone
was that of Charles Schumer, who said to Gregg, "Get to work! Stop screwing around with health care!" Sporadically, a
sharp cackle emanated from Al Franken, who wandered the chamber, looking for Republicans he could charm into
laughing. Observed from the press gallery, the senators in their confined space began to resemble zoo animals—Levin a
shambling brown bear, John Thune a loping gazelle, Jim Bunning a maddened grizzly. Each one displayed a limited set of
behaviors: in conversations, John Kerry planted himself a few inches away, loomed, and clamped his hands down on a
colleague's shoulders. Joe Lieberman patted everyone on the back. It became clear which senators were loners (Russ
Feingold, Daniel Akaka) and which were social (Blanche Lincoln, Lindsey Graham); which senators were important (Dick
Durbin, Jon Kyl) and which were ignored (Bayh, Bunning).
Past midnight, Durbin slumped at his desk, one hand over his face, yawning painfully. Susan Collins was going through
her mail. Twenty-three amendments had been voted down, and the Republicans were proposing a fresh batch. "Can we
get some order?" Bunning growled, before he introduced a proposal to let senior citizens opt out of parts of Medicare. It
was the only amendment that any Republicans joined the Democrats to defeat.
Harry Reid controls the Senate's schedule, but Mitch McConnell, of Kentucky, who is the Minority Leader, can object.
Since nearly everything in the Senate depends on unanimous consent, the main business of the place is a continuous
negotiation between these two supremely unsentimental men. That night, they played a game of chicken: McConnell,
unsmiling, his eyes riveted ahead, held out the prospect of dozens more amendments; Reid, a former boxer, was
hunched and mumbling, playing rope-a-dope, vowing to fend off amendments all night. The two leaders left the chamber
to confer privately about how to proceed. Inside, the atmosphere of a slumber party set in. Debbie Stabenow, of Michigan,
her hand across her heart, sang a sentimental duet with Robert Menendez, of New Jersey. Exhaustion momentarily
eased the partisan divide. Claire McCaskill sat down beside Tom Coburn, held up an erect finger in his face, as if casting
her Viagra vote, then let it go limp. Coburn could be heard to joke, "The longest it lasted was thirty seconds."
At two-forty-five in the morning, Reid suddenly declared the Senate adjourned. The Senate parliamentarian had just found
two small violations of the reconciliation rules, meaning that in the morning, despite the Democrats' efforts, the bill would
go back to the House for another vote. At the bang of the gavel, the senators fled. In the parking lot, on the Capitol's
northeast side, McCaskill climbed into her S.U.V. Levin, in a cramped sedan, was chauffeured off into the empty streets.
On a marble ledge near the exit, Arlen Specter sat alone, a ghost in a brown suit, staring straight ahead, as if waiting for
someone to take him away.
The Senate reconvened at 9:45 A.M. Around two in the afternoon, the members gathered for the final vote, and the
Democrats were giddy. Tom Harkin, of Iowa, and Christopher Dodd, of Connecticut, even exchanged a hug. "Everyone's
tired," Reid declared before the final vote. "This legislative fight is one for the record books." He was so fatigued that he
initially voted the wrong way. Lindsey Graham came in late, delaying the tally by ten minutes. "Way to go, Lindsey, way to
stretch it out," Sam Brownback told him. A few Republicans lingered and took in the moment, like players on the losing
team at the end of the World Series. After a year of work, health-care reform had passed, 56-43, and for a moment the
chamber's Tweeting pygmies had become legislative giants.
The Senate is often referred to as "the world's greatest deliberative body." Jeff Merkley, a freshman Democrat from
Oregon, said, "That is a phrase that I wince each time I hear it, because the amount of real deliberation, in terms of
exchange of ideas, is so limited." Merkley could remember witnessing only one moment of floor debate between a
Republican and a Democrat. "The memory I took with me was: 'Wow, that's unusual—there's a conversation occurring in
which they're making point and counterpoint and challenging each other.' And yet nobody else was in the chamber."
Tom Udall, a freshman Democrat from New Mexico, could not recall seeing a senator change another senator's mind.
"You would really need a good hour or two of extensive exchange among folks that really know the issue," he said.
Instead, a senator typically gives "a prepared speech that's already been vetted through the staff. Then another guy gets
up and gives a speech on a completely different subject." From time to time, senators of the same party carry on a
colloquy—"I would be interested in the distinguished senator from Iowa's view of the other side's Medicare Advantage
plan"—that has been scripted in advance by aides.
While senators are in Washington, their days are scheduled in fifteen-minute intervals: staff meetings, interviews, visits
from lobbyists and home-state groups, caucus lunches, committee hearings, briefing books, floor votes, fund-raisers.
Each senator sits on three or four committees and even more subcommittees, most of which meet during the same
morning hours, which helps explain why committee tables are often nearly empty, and why senators drifting into a hearing
can barely sustain a coherent line of questioning. All this activity is crammed into a three-day week, for it's an unwritten
rule of the modern Senate that votes are almost never scheduled for Mondays or Fridays, which allows senators to spend
four days away from the capital. Senators now, unlike those of several decades ago, often keep their families in their
home states, where they return most weekends, even if it's to Alaska or Idaho—a concession to endless fund-raising, and
to the populist anti-Washington mood of recent years. (When Newt Gingrich became Speaker of the House, in 1995, he
told new Republican members not to move their families to the capital.) Tom Daschle, the former Democratic leader, said,
"When we scheduled votes, the only day where we could be absolutely certain we had all one hundred senators there
was Wednesday afternoon."
Nothing dominates the life of a senator more than raising money. Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat, said, "Of any free time
you have, I would say fifty per cent, maybe even more," is spent on fund-raising. In addition to financing their own
campaigns, senators participate at least once a week in the Power Hour, during which they make obligatory calls on
behalf of the Party (in the Democrats' case, from a three-story town house across Constitution Avenue from the Senate
office buildings, since they're barred from using their own offices to raise money). Lamar Alexander, the Tennessee
Republican, insisted that the donations are never sufficient to actually buy a vote, but he added, "It sucks up time that a
senator ought to be spending getting to know other senators, working on issues."
In June, 2009, top aides to Max Baucus, whose Finance Committee was negotiating the health-care-reform bill, took time
to meet with two health-care lobbyists, who themselves were former Baucus aides. (Baucus received more than a million
dollars from the industry for his 2008 reelection campaign.) That month, according to Common Cause, industry groups
were spending $1.4 million a day to lobby members of Congress. Udall, speaking of the corrosive effect of fund-raising
and lobbying, said, "People know it in their heart—they know this place is dominated by special interests. The over-all bills
are not nearly as bold because of the influence of money."
Deschle sketched a portrait of the contemporary senator who is too busy to think: "Sometimes, you're dialling for dollars,
you get the call, you've got to get over to vote, you've got fifteen minutes. You don't have a clue what's on the floor, your
staff is whispering in your ears, you're running onto the floor, then you check with your leader—you double check—but,
just to make triple sure, there's a little sheet of paper on the clerk's table: The leader recommends an aye vote, or a no
vote. So you've got all these checks just to make sure you don't screw up, but even then you screw up sometimes. But, if
you're ever pressed, 'Why did you vote that way?'—you just walk out thinking, Oh, my God, I hope nobody asks, because
I don't have a clue."
Aides, at the elbows of senators as they shuttle between their offices and the Capitol, have proliferated over the past few
decades, and they play a crucial role. Lamar Alexander, who has an office of fifty people, pointed out that staff members,
who are younger and often more ideological than their bosses, and less dependent on institutional relationships, tend to
push senators toward extremes. Often, aides are the main actors behind proposed legislation—writing bills, negotiating
the details—while the senator is relegated to repeating talking points on Fox' or MSNBC.
One day in his office, Udall picked up some tabloids from his coffee table and waved them at me. "You know about all
these rags that cover the Hill, right?" he said, smiling. There are five dailies—Politico, The Hill, Roll Call, Con gressDaily,
and CQ Today—all of which emphasize insider conflict. The senators, who like to complain about the trivializing effect of
the "24/7 media," provide no end of fodder for it. The news of the day was what Udall called a "dust-up" between Scott
Brown, the freshman Massachusetts Republican, and a staffer for Jim DeMint, the arch-conservative from South Carolina;
the staffer had Tweeted that Brown was voting too often with the Democrats, leading Brown to confront DeMint on the
Senate floor over this supposed breach of protocol. Bloggers carry so much influence that many senators have a young
press aide dedicated to the care and feeding of online media. News about, by, and for a tiny kingdom of political
obsessives dominates the attention of senators and staff, while stories that might affect their constituents go unreported
because their home-state papers can no longer afford to have bureaus in Washington. Dodd, who came to the Senate in
1981 and will leave next January, told me, "I used to have eleven Connecticut newspaper reporters who covered me on a
daily basis. I don't have one today, and haven't had one in a number of years. Instead, D.C. publications only see me
through the prism of conflict." Lamar Alexander described the effect as "this instant radicalizing of positions to the left and
the right."
Both Alexander and Gregg said that the Senate had been further polarized by the rising number of senators—now nearly
fifty—who come from the House, rather than from governorships or other positions where bipartisan coOperation is still
permissible. "A lot of senators don't understand the history or tradition of the institution," Gregg said. "Substantive,
thoughtful, moderate discussion is pushed aside."
Encumbered with aides, prodded by hourly jolts from electronic media, racing from the hearing room to the caucus lunch
to the Power Hour to the airport, senators no longer have the time, or perhaps the inclination, to get to know one
another—least of all, members of the other party. Friendships across party lines are more likely among the few spouses
who live in Washington. After Udall joined the Senate, last year, he was invited to dinner by Alexander, because Jill
Cooper Udall and Honey Alexander had become friends through a women's social club. It remains the only time Udall has
set foot in the house of a Republican senator. (Vice-President Joe Biden, in his autobiography, recalls that, in the
seventies, a bipartisan group of senators and their wives hosted a monthly dinner: "In those days Democrats and
Republicans actually enjoyed each other's company.") When I asked Chris Dodd how well he knew, for example, Jim
DeMint, Dodd said, "Not at all. Whereas Jesse Helms and I knew each other pretty well." He repeated something that Jon
Kyl, the Republican whip, from Arizona, had recently said to him: "There's no trust." Dodd, whose father was a senator,
went on, "That's really all there is—this place really operates on that. I don't think anyone would argue with that
conclusion. And if that's missing.
There remains a veneer—badly chipped—of comity. On the floor, senators still refer to members of the opposing party as
"friends." Gregg described Kent Conrad, a Democrat from North Dakota, as "one of my best friends in the Senate," and
both Gregg and Alexander ticked off examples of little-known legislation that they are currently working on with
Democrats; Alexander and Ben Cardin, of Maryland, have introduced a bill to ban mountaintop-removal coal mining. Udall
noted that he had become friendly with John McCain when they went on a congressional tour of Iraq. But opportunities to
bond are rare. On the first floor of the Capitol, there is a private dining room for senators, the "inner sanctum," where
Republicans and Democrats used to have lunch (at separate tables, but in the same room). In the seventies, old bulls
such as James Eastland, Hubert Humphrey, and Jacob Javits held court there; later, Daniel Patrick Moynihan did. "You
learned, and also you found out what was going on," Dodd said, adding, "It's awfully difficult to say crappy things about
someone that you just had lunch with." These days, the inner sanctum is nearly always empty. Senators eat lunch in their
respective caucus rooms with members of their party, or else "downtown," which means asking donors for money over
steak and potatoes at the Monocle or Charlie Palmer. The tradition of the "caucus lunch" was instituted by Republicans in
the fifties, when they lost their majority; Democrats, after losing theirs in 1980, followed suit. Caucus lunches work
members on both sides into a state of pep-rally fervor. During one recent Republican lunch, Jim Bunning referred to Harry
Reid as an idiot. "At least he had the courtesy to do it behind closed doors," Alexander joked, adding, "We spend most of
our time in team meetings deciding what we're going to do to each other."
In 2007, Alexander and Lieberman started a series of bipartisan Tuesday breakfasts. "They kind of dwindled off during the
health-care debate," Alexander said. Udall has tried to revive the Wednesday inner-sanctum lunch. For the first few
months, only Democrats attended. Then, one Wednesday in May, Susan Collins, the Maine Republican, showed up,
joking nervously about being a turncoat; to protect her reputation, her presence was kept secret.
These efforts at resurrecting dead customs are as self-conscious and, probably, as doomed as the get-togethers of lovers
who try to stay friends after a breakup. Ira Shapiro, a Washington lawyer and a former aide to Senator Gaylord Nelson, of
Wisconsin, put it this way: "Why would they want to have lunch together when they hate each other?"
The upper chamber of Congress was a constitutional compromise between popular sovereignty and state sovereignty.
The Senate was designed, as part of the separation of powers, to check the impulses of the House and the popular will.
For some Federalists, it also had an aristocratic purpose: to collect knowledge and experience, and to guard against a
levelling spirit that might overtake the majority. When Alexis de Tocqueville visited the Senate, in 1832, he was deeply
impressed by the quality of its members: "They represent only the lofty thoughts [of the nation] and the generous instincts
animating it, not the petty passions." But he also recognized that "a minority of the nation dominating the Senate could
completely paralyze the will of the majority represented in the other house, and that is contrary to the spirit of
constitutional government." As long as the Senate continued to be composed of America's most talented statesmen,
Tocqueville implied, it would restrain its own anti-democratic potential.
Robert A. Caro, in "Master of the Senate," the third volume of his life of Lyndon Johnson, argues that after the Civil War •
the Senate was captured by wealthy and sectional interests, ending a more high-minded age when Daniel Webster, Henry
Clay, and John C. Calhoun engaged in brilliant debate. Aside from spasms of legislation at the start of the Presidencies of
Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt, Caro writes, the Senate remained controlled by an alliance of Southern racists
and Republican corporate shills, and was "the dam against which the waves of social reform dashed themselves in vain—
the chief obstructive force in the federal government." By the fifties, the Senate had become far more conservative than
the public. And not just conservative: William S. White, in his 1956 book "Citadel," called the Senate "to a most peculiar
degree, a Southern Institution . . . growing at the heart of this ostensibly national assembly" and "the only place in the
country where the South did not lose the war."
By mid-century, it had become a journalistic cliché to call the Senate broken. Otto Preminger's 1962 film "Advise and
Consent," based on the novel by Allen Drury, is about the Senate of that period, and it presents Democrats and
Republicans as equally amoral, calculating, and power-hungry. But the institution, as depicted by Preminger, still works, in
its way: though the deals stink, they get cut. The senators know their colleagues and the rules; they back-stab one
another in the lunchroom, then drink cocktails and play cards on Saturday nights. There are no lobbyists, no fund-raisers,
no media, no constituents—only senators' intricate relations with one another. The Senate is its own world.
In a memoir, Johnson's longtime aide Harry McPherson recalls learning that the Senate's "famous 'club' atmosphere is
based on the members' mutual acceptance of responsibility and concentration on the tasks at hand. . . . They thrust hard
at one another in debate over serious matters," but, he writes, "understanding and accommodation in the ordinary course
of the Senate day was essential to sanity." Johnson, the most powerful Majority Leader in history, bent the Senate to his
will and forced it to become more efficient. He saw his colleagues as either "whales"—the heavyweight chairmen who
negotiated legislation—or "minnows," the followers who went along with the brokered deals. And when, in 1958, a
formidable new class of liberal Democrats entered the Senate—including Edmund Muskie, Eugene McCarthy, and Philip
Hart—the legislative machinery began to produce reform. Michael Janeway, the author of "The Fall of the House of
Roosevelt," worked as a summer staff member between 1958 and 1962. "They used to talk to each other—that's my most
vivid recollection," he said. "If Wayne Morse talked of constitutional law on the floor, the Southerners would come in to
hear him. The same with Hubert Humphrey on farm policy. My strongest impression was of it being a deliberative body,
drawing each other out—sometimes pedantically." Senators who ran for office in order to work on foreign policy, social
welfare, or urbanization had to win credibility with the whales. "But if you wanted to do something there was a mechanism
by which you could do it," Janeway said.
In the sixties and seventies, Southern-conservative control was broken by a coalition of left-of-center Democrats and
moderate Republicans. Donald Ritchie, the Senate historian, who started working there in 1976, described the Senate of
those decades as "a bipartisan liberal institution." The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was written largely out of the office of the
Republican Minority Leader, Everett Dirksen. Every major initiative—voting rights, open housing, environmental law,
campaign reform—enjoyed bipartisan support. In the rare event of a filibuster, the motion to end debate was often filed
jointly by leaders of both parties. When Medicare—that government takeover of health care for the elderly—was passed,
in 1965, it won 70-24.
The Senate's momentum nurtured superb talent: William Fulbright, Everett Dirksen, Henry Jackson, Frank Church,
Howard Baker. In 1969, George McGovern chaired a select committee on hunger that actually held bipartisan "field
hearings" in poor regions, calling witnesses in migrant labor camps, and then, with Bob Dole's indispensable support,
greatly expanded the food-stamp program. The intensity of senatorial purpose in those years must strike today's
legislators as profoundly humbling. After Joe Biden came to the Senate, in 1973, Hubert Humphrey took him aside and
said, "You have to pick an issue that becomes yours. That's how you attract your colleagues to follow you, Joe. That's
how you demonstrate your bona fides. Don't be a gadfly." Humphrey's career advice: "You should become Mr. Housing.
Housing is the future."
The Senate's modern decline began in 1978, with the election of a new wave of anti-government conservatives, and
accelerated as Republicans became the majority in 1981. "The Quayle generation came in, and there were a number of
people just like Dan—same generation, same hair style, same beliefs," Gary Hart, the Colorado Democrat, recalled. "They
were harder-line. They weren't there to get along with Democrats. But they look accommodationist compared to
Republicans in the Senate today." Church, McGovern, Javits, and Birch Bayh were gone. Ira Shapiro, the former aide,
who is writing a book about the Senate of the sixties and seventies, said, "It was a huge loss of the most experienced,
accomplished senators being replaced by neophytes. All of a sudden, in 1981, more than half the Senate had been there
less than six years." He added, "The shattering of the great Senate has long-term effects that keep showing up. It gets
worse over time, but it just never gets restored. There was a phrase I heard from Helms and the younger ones: 'Others
didn't want to make waves; I wanted to drain the swamp.'"
After C-SPAN went on the air, in 1979, the cozy atmosphere that encouraged both deliberation and back-room deals
began to yield to transparency and, with it, posturing. "So Damn Much Money," a recent book by the Washington Post
reporter Robert G. Kaiser, traces the spectacular rise of Washington lobbying to the same period. Liberal Republicans
began to disappear, and as Southern Democrats died out they were replaced by conservative Republicans. Bipartisan
coalitions on both wings of the Senate vanished. The institutionalist gave way to the free agent, who controlled his own
fund-raising apparatus and media presence, and whose electoral base was a patchwork of single-issue groups. Members
of both parties—Howard Metzenbaum, the Ohio Democrat; Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican—took to
regularly using the Senate's rules to tie up business for narrowly ideological reasons. The number of filibusters shot up in
the eighties and continued to rise in the following decades, as the parties kept alternating control of the Senate and
escalating a procedural arms race, routinely blocking the confirmation of executive and judicial appointees. Democrats
filibustered Republican nominees to the bench; then Republicans threatened to ban the filibuster in such cases—the so-
called "nuclear option." Older members were perturbed when, in 2004, the Republican Majority Leader, Bill Frist, went to
South Dakota to campaign against the Democratic Minority Leader, Tom Daschle (who went on to lose). A few years
earlier, such an action would have been unthinkable.
The weakened institution could no longer withstand pressures from outside its walls; as money and cameras rushed in,
independent minds fell more and more in line with the partisans. Rough parity between the two parties meant that every
election had the potential to make or break a majority, crushing the incentive to cooperate across the aisle. The Senate,
no longer a fount of ideas, became a backwater of the U.S. government. During the Clinton years, the main action was
between the White House and the Gingrich House of Representatives; during the Bush years, the Republican Senate
majority abdicated the oversight role that could have placed a vital check on executive power.
Norman Ornstein, a congressional expert at the American Enterprise Institute, said that the Senate has increasingly
become populated by "ideologues and charlatans." He went on, "When we do get good people who come in, they very
quickly get ground up by the dynamic and the culture of the parties. And once you get there, look at what it takes to stay
there." He spoke of Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican, who, nearing the end of his career, spent much of last year
working closely with his friend Max Baucus on the health-care bill. Then, in August, Grassley went home and, faced with
angry Republican voters and the prospect of a primary challenge from the right, started warning about "pulling the plug on
Grandma." Ornstein added that similar pressures had led John McCain to begin "altering his behavior and abandoning
every issue, including campaign-finance reform."
One morning in April, I visited Harry McPherson, the former L.B.J. aide, at the offices of the legal and lobbying firm D. L.
A. Piper, in downtown Washington. McPherson, who is eighty, had on his desk the firm's spiral-bound directory for the
111th Congress. I asked him who, in Johnsonian terms, were the whales of the current Senate. McPherson ran his finger
down the list of senators. He did it again. "I'm trying here, looking for a remote descendant. Judas Priest, look at this." He
was stumped. "Well, I see some good people, I see some people who are going to get coalitions together over time." He
put the directory aside. "I'm just having the damnedest time."
Down the hall from McPherson's office was that of Mel Martinez, a former Republican senator from Florida; he was hired
last year, two weeks after resigning his Senate seat without completing his first term. (He has since moved on to
JPMorgan Chase.) William Cohen, the former Maine senator and Secretary of Defense, has an office downstairs. Tom
Daschle works at D. L. A. Piper; his predecessor as Democratic leader, George Mitchell, was the firm's chairman, until
President Obama appointed him to be his Middle East envoy. One feature of the diminished U.S. senator is the ease with
which he moves from legislating to lobbying. Between 1998 and 2004, half the senators who left office became lobbyists.
In 2007, Trent Lott, a Republican leader in the Senate less than a year into his fourth term, abruptly resigned and formed
a lobbying firm with former Senator John Breaux, just a few weeks before a new law took effect requiring a two-year
waiting period between serving and lobbying.
When you spend your days at the Senate, it's easy to forget about everything else. The House of Representatives seems
miles away (it's just down a corridor and across the rotunda), the White House is another country, and actual foreign
countries are unimaginable. The place remains insular, labyrinthine, and opaque—even physically. Senators commute
thirty seconds between their offices and the chamber by electric subway cars that run along a tunnel under Constitution
Avenue. Many signs are misleading or obsolete (the gilded lettering over the visitors' gallery says "Men's Gallery"), and
the Capitol is filled with secret passageways and spare rooms, called hideaways, doled out according to seniority, where
senators can read, drink, doze, and wait for the buzzer announcing an imminent vote. The most pervasive authority over
the institution is not the Constitution or the Bible but, rather, an impenetrable sixteen-hundred-page tome, by Floyd M.
Riddick, called "Senate Procedure: Precedents and Practices," which only the late Robert Byrd, of West Virginia, was
known to have read in its entirety. The procedures are so abstruse that a parliamentarian must sit below the presiding
officer and, essentially, tell him or her what to say.
After half a century, the picture given by Preminger's "Advise and Consent" is still faintly visible. "The Senate, by its
nature, is a place where consensus reigns and personal relationships are paramount," Lamar Alexander said. "And that's
not changed." Which is exactly the problem: it's a self-governing body that depends on the reasonableness of its
members to function. Sarah Binder, a congressional scholar at George Washington University, said, "To have a chamber
that rules by unanimous consent—it's nutty! Especially when you've got Jim Bunning to please."
In 2006 and 2008, sixteen Democrats entered the Senate, giving the Party its current majority of fifty-nine to forty-one
(counting two independents). They include moderates, like Jon Tester, of Montana, and Mark Warner, of Virginia; liberals,
like Sherrod Brown, of Ohio, and Sheldon Whitehouse, of Rhode Island; policy specialists, like Amy Klobuchar, of
Minnesota, and Jeff Merkley; and iconoclasts, like Claire McCaskill. Their interest in legislating has won the admiration of
senior senators. "If they can stay, I think they'll be terrific," Chris Dodd said. "My worry is they won't stay. Because it's not
productive."
The Democratic class of 2008 arrived with President Obama, expecting to usher in 6 dynamic new era. Instead, their
young Senate careers have passed in a daily slog of threatened filibusters and "secret holds"—when a senator
anonymously objects to bringing an appointment up for a vote, which requires unanimous consent. On April 20th, Claire
McCaskill took the trouble to read off the names of fifty-six Obama nominees languishing in the limbo of secret holds, and
Jon Kyl objected to every one of them. Just getting a bill to the floor for debate can require days of tactical gamesmanship
between the party leaders. There were times when Warner wondered if anyone had ever quit in the first year. Michael
Bennet said, "We find ourselves at a moment in our history when the questions are huge ones, not small ones, and where
things have been put off for a really long period of time." He mentioned the national debt, energy policy, and the financial
crisis. "Yet you have a Senate that's designed not to advance change but to slow it."
We were talking in his hideaway, a windowless room in the Capitol basement, which had a mini-fridge stocked with bottled
water, black leatherette furniture circa 1962, and a TV tuned to C-SPAN2 on mute; Senator Kyl's mouth was moving.
Bennet, the former superintendent of schools in Denver, was appointed to a vacant seat in 2009, and already has to
defend it this year. He described the Senate with the dry bluntness of an outsider who hasn't allowed himself to grow too
attached. Bennet repeated a story he had heard. about a new congressman giving his maiden speech: "And then some
more veteran guy came over and said, 'Son, you're talking like this place is on the level. It's not on the level.' As the fifteen
months or so have gone by that I've been here, the less on the level it seems."
Earlier this year, the Senate's procedural absurdities became national news twice in one month. On February 4th,
Con gressDaily reported that Richard Shelby, an Alabama Republican, was secretly blocking the confirmation of seventy
Obama appointees over a dispute involving defense earmarks for his•state. (His tactics exposed, Shelby—whose office
maintains that he was responsible for fewer than fifty holds—lifted all but three.) Later that month, Bunning spent several
days and a late night on the Senate floor, filibustering to prevent benefits from being paid to millions of unemployed
Americans. When Merkley tried to reason with him, Bunning responded, "Tough shit." (Eventually, Republicans persuaded
Bunning to stop.)
These incidents elicited a brief outcry, but the extent of the Senate's routine folly remains largely hidden. For example,
Grassley and Ron Wyden, of Oregon, have been trying since 1997 to end the practice of secret holds, without success. In
2007, the Senate passed a bill banning secret holds that last longer than six days. But to get around the ban two or more
senators can pass the hold back and forth—it's called "rolling holds"—and their party leader facilitates the game by
keeping their names secret.
Many of the Senate's antique rules and precedents have been warped beyond recognition by the modern pressures of
partisanship. The hold, for example, was a courtesy extended to senators in the days of horse travel, when they needed
time to get back to Washington and read a bill or question an appointee before casting their vote. Sarah Binder, who co-
authored a book on the filibuster, calls the procedure a historical accident: in 1806, the Senate got rid of a little-used rule
that allowed the "previous question" to be called to a vote. Suddenly, there was no inherent limit on debate, and by the
eighteen-thirties senators had begun taking advantage of this loophole, derailing the proceedings by getting up and talking
until their voice, legs, or bladder gave out. (The word "filibuster' comes from vrijbuiter—old Dutch for "looter.")
In 1917, Woodrow Wilson, with his wartime legislative agenda blocked by filibusters, forced the Senate to pass Rule XXII,
which allowed a two-thirds majority to bring a floor debate to an end with a "cloture" vote. For decades, the rule was rarely
used; between 1919 and 1971, there were only forty-nine cloture votes, fewer than one per year. In the seventies and
eighties, the annual average rose to about a dozen. (Frustration with this increase led the Senate, in 1975, to lower the
threshold for cloture to sixty votes.) In the nineties and early aughts, the average went up to twenty-five or thirty a year, as
both parties escalated their use of the filibuster when they found themselves in the minority. After the Republicans lost
their majority in 2006, filibusters became everyday events: there were a hundred and twelve cloture votes in 2007 and
2008, and this session Republicans are on target to break their own filibuster record.
The tally of cloture votes reflects only a small fraction of senatorial obstruction. Three hundred and forty-five bills passed
by the House have been prevented from even coming up for debate in the Senate. "Why?" Steny Hoyer, the outraged
Democratic Majority Leader of the House, asked me. "Because they do not do their business in a way that facilitates
noncontroversial things. Thankfully, the House of Representatives is not becoming the Senate." Last week, six House
Democrats expressed their displeasure with the upper chamber by staging a sit-in of sorts on the Senate floor.
Seventy-six nominees for judgeships and executive posts have been approved by committees but, because of blocks,
haven't come up for a vote in the full Senate, leaving courtrooms idle and jobs unfilled across the upper levels of the
Obama Administration. (The Democrats also practiced the art of blocking nominees during the Bush Administration.)
There's often no objection to the individual being blocked: after an eight-month hold, Martha Johnson, nominated to run
the General Services Administration, was confirmed 96-0. On an issue like health-care reform, when the objection was
substantive, Republicans ransacked Riddick's "Senate Procedure" for every conceivable way to delay a debate and vote.
Judd Gregg even sent a memo on stalling tactics to his Republican colleagues. Tom Coburn demanded the reading aloud
of an entire seven-hundred-and-sixty-seven-page amendment proposed by Bernie Sanders, the Vermont socialist; Senate
clerks, working in half-hour shifts, were three hours into the chore when Sanders withdrew the amendment in frustration.
Under McConnell, Republicans have consistently consumed as much of the Senate's calendar as possible with legislative
maneuvering. The strategy is not to extend deliberation of the Senate's agenda but to prevent it. Tom Harkin, who first
proposed reform of the filibuster in 1995, called his Republican colleagues "nihilists," who want to create chaos because it
serves their ideology. "If there's chaos, things will tend toward simple solutions," Harkin said. "In chaos people don't listen
to reason." McConnell did not respond to requests for an interview, but he has often argued that the Republican strategy
reflects the views of a majority of Americans. In March, he told the Times, "To the extent that they"—the Democrats—
"want to do things that we think are in the political center and would be helpful to the country, we'll be helpful. To the
extent they are trying to turn us into a Western European country, we are not going to be helpful."
One of the mysteries of the Senate is how Mitch McConnell has been able to keep his members in line, on vote after vote.
Why do moderates with years of experience and their own power base back home—Richard Lugar, of Indiana; Susan
Collins, of Maine; George Voinovich, of Ohio—keep siding with the more extreme members of their caucus? Alexander
said that McConnell listens well to all his members, adding, "When you have your back against the wall and the gallows
are hanging in front of you, it tends to unify. Operating with forty members—it concentrates the mind."
Lindsey Graham described to the Times how McConnell exhorted his caucus after the disastrous 2008 election: "He said
if we didn't stick together on big things, we wouldn't be relevant." Last December, the Republicans decided to filibuster a
military-spending bill in order to delay the looming vote on health care until as close to Christmas as possible. Thad
Cochran, the Republican ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, promised Daniel Inouye, the chairman, that
he wouldn't join the effort. But at the last minute Cochran, who has been in the Senate since 1979 and brings
disproportionate amounts of defense money to Mississippi, told Reid that his leadership wouldn't allow him to vote with
the Democrats and end the filibuster—even on a matter of national security. (The Democrats were able to impose cloture,
and the vote on health care finally took place on Christmas Eve.)
Republican defections have been rare. In early 2009, Collins and Olympia Snowe, also of Maine, voted for the stimulus
bill, along with Arlen Specter (who promptly switched parties). Snowe also voted for the Finance Committee's health-care-
reform bill last October, the only Republican to do so. But in December, at the pivotal moment, she voted against the
version that went before the full Senate. "I wasn't interested in expanding this program beyond the Finance Committee
version—it grew by a thousand pages," Snowe said. She wasn't included in the negotiations with White House officials
that took place in an elegant conference room across from Reid's suite of offices, and said that the Democrats "did not
accept any of my proposals. As I said to the President, it was all windup and no pitch." McConnell was able to exploit her
alienation. A friend of Snowe cited another reason for her reversal: "She actually said to me once that she had never felt
the pressure that she felt on health care, never before had that pressure been quite as evident to her or quite as real or
troubling. Kyl and McConnell were saying things like 'You just can't let us down, we're all in this together. You're a senior
Republican member of this caucus, and you just have to hang tough with us. We expect it and you're going to do it.' "
Reid doesn't use such tough tactics; he has achieved his position, in spite of his public shortcomings, by being the senator
who helped other Democrats, always answered their calls, and got them what they wanted through masterly
maneuvering. This has made him enormously popular within the Democratic caucus, but it doesn't give him the leverage
of McConnell, let alone of Lyndon Johnson.
In the current Senate, it has become normal for a handful of senators, sometimes representing just ten or twenty per cent
of the country's population, to hold everything up. And the status quo has become sufficiently frustrating that a few new
senators have considered a radical option: mutiny.
Tom Udall, who is sixty-two, is older than most freshman senators. He has the crow's-feet of a Westerner who has spent
time in the sun, and a slow, good-natured voice. His father, Stewart, was an Arizona congressman and the Interior
Secretary for Presidents Kennedy and Johnson; his uncle Mo was a legendary Arizona representative; his cousin Mark is
a freshman senator from Colorado. Udall served five terms in the House before winning a Senate seat from New Mexico,
in 2008. And yet he has the air of a political Candide—he is always earnest, capable of disappointment but not cynicism.
"I ran on the idea that the Senate should not be a graveyard for good ideas," he said. "Then to be on the inside—the thing
that strikes you is how one senator can hold up the whole show."
In his first year in office, Udall decided to do something audacious: he would try to change the Senate's rules.
Customarily, the rules continue session after session, and a provision in Rule XXII requires sixty-seven votes to amend
them, making it extremely difficult. ("Rule XXII is a Catch-22," Ted Kennedy used to joke.) Udall embraced a different
idea—the "constitutional option." Article I, Section 5 of the Constitution states that "each House may determine the Rules
of its Proceedings" at the beginning of the new Congress. So, in theory, a senator could take the floor next January and
propose debating its rules from scratch, including the filibuster. New rules could be passed with a simple majority. There's
even a precedent for this: moves to revisit the rules by invoking the constitutional option have been made three times,
most recently in 1975. Udall has spent much of the past year trying to build support for the idea.
At the request of Udall and others, Schumer, who is the chairman of the Rules Committee, has held a series of hearings
on the filibuster, calling witnesses such as Sarah Binder, the historian, and Walter Mondale, who was in the Senate when
the constitutional option was invoked in 1975. Dick Durbin, the second-highest-ranking Democrat, has organized working
groups among newer members on other internal reforms, such as ending secret holds and choosing committee chairs by
caucus vote rather than by seniority. (Lamar Alexander wryly suggested to me that Schumer and Durbin were competing
for the favor of newer members, in case Harry Reid loses his seat in the fall and they run against each other for Majority
Leader.)
For Republican institutionalists, such as Alexander and Gregg, the push for rules reform is folly. "If you want a
parliamentary form of government, go over to the House," Gregg, who is about to retire, scoffed. "Why even run for the
Senate?" Udall's plan for next January, he said, would be a "gigantic mistake."
"They'll get over it," Alexander said of the Democrats' enthusiasm for rules reform. "And they'll get over it quicker if they're
in the minority next January. Because they'll instantly see the value of slowing the Senate down to consider whatever they
have to say." He added that the Senate "may be getting done about as much as the American people want done." The
President's ambitious agenda, after all, has upset a lot of voters, across the political spectrum. None of the Republicans I
spoke to agreed with the contention that the Senate is "broken." Alexander claimed that he and other Republicans were
exercising the moderating, thoughtful influence on legislation that the founders wanted in the Senate. "The Senate wasn't
created to be efficient," he argued. "It was created to be inefficient." At one of the filibuster hearings, in April, Alexander,
sitting across the table from Udall, said that, for all the times the Democrats charge the Republicans with obstructing
legislation, "we could say that's the number of times the majority has tried to cut off our right to debate, our right to offer
amendments, which is the essence of the Senate."
Newcomers like Udall seem to think that the Senate has grown so absurd and extreme that some kind of reform is
inevitable. Perhaps they need more time to plumb the depths of the institution's intransigence. According to Sarah Binder,
a change in rules is extremely unlikely; Republicans would be implacably opposed to, say, weakening the filibuster, and
so would some Democrats, especially long-serving ones. "I would oppose that," Chris Dodd said, adding of the freshmen,
"These are people who have never been in the minority." For older Democrats, who have put in their years, grown adept
at working the rules, and now chair powerful committees, the reform impulse could be a threat. (Among senior senators,
the sole enthusiast for rules reform is Tom Harkin.) One senator spoke of the Senate as being divided not between
whales and minnows but, rather, between bulls and calves. The older Democrats are too accustomed to the Senate's
ways to share the frustrations of the newcomers; the handful of older moderate Republicans are too weak to challenge the
newer radicals who now dominate the caucus.
Even if the freshmen Democrats can somehow reform the filibuster next January, the Senate will remain a sclerotic,
wasteful, unhappy body. The deepest source of its problems is not rules and precedents but, rather, its human beings,
who have created a culture where Tocqueville's "lofty thoughts" and "generous impulses" have no place.
A few days after passing health-care reform, the Senate struggled to its feet to take on a second large task. Financial
regulatory reform should have been the easiest piece of major legislation of the Obama Presidency, the likeliest to win
real bipartisan support. The financial crisis had been catastrophic for millions of Americans, and after the 2008 bailout
Wall Street had become even more hated than the Senate was. In April, a lineup of bankers from Goldman Sachs
appeared before Senator Levin's subcommittee on investigations, and managed to appear as arrogant, callous, and
evasive as their reputations had suggested. The public demanded action. Some Republicans had a genuine desire to
pass a bill. If health-care reform had been a war of attrition, financial reform was a promising liaison.
The affair began with a Republican, Bob Corker, and a Democrat, Mark Warner—both multimillionaires serving their first
term, both considered centrists. Corker is a small, dapper former construction magnate who became the mayor of
Chattanooga; Warner is a tall, preppily dressed former telecommunications entrepreneur who became the governor of
Virginia. Chris Dodd, the Banking Committee chairman, assigned them to work together on the section of the bill having to
do with the liquidation of troubled firms—making sure that there would never be another taxpayer bailout. They worked
through the winter, in Warner's office, in Corker's office, over dinner, sometimes without staff, as if they were members of
a Senate from the past. They hosted a series of afternoon seminars, inviting guests such as Ben Bernanke, Alan
Greenspan, and Sheila Bair. Corker and Warner were sometimes said to be the only Democrat and Republican still
talking to each other. In January, Business Week called them the Senate's "Odd Couple." By February, they had finished
their work.
Meanwhile, discussions about the entire bill between Dodd and Richard Shelby, the top Republican on the committee,
dragged on, repeatedly breaking down. Finally, on February 10th, Dodd called Corker, who, though he was one of the
committee's junior members, agreed to be the chairman's Republican negotiating partner. When Corker informed
McConnell and Shelby, they expressed surprise. "It was an odd place to be," Corker recalled. "And yet that night we
began meeting." The junior Republican savored the rare experience of creating, rather than opposing, legislation. In
response, Shelby's conservative staff tried to undermine Corker, spreading rumors among Republicans and their lobbyists
that he was giving too much away. (A Shelby aide said that staff members were simply informing other Republicans of the
Party's line on financial reform.)
On March 10th, Dodd concluded that he had to move a bill to the floor. He called Corker and said, "You've been a great
partner." He was ending their talks after only a month. "It's a little stunning, I've got to be honest," Corker told reporters
afterward. Someone close to the negotiations compared Corker to Dickens's Miss Havisham, unable to get over the
rebuff, forever awaiting the arrival of her groom, all her clocks stopped. Corker later said that Dodd had ended the talks
under pressure from the White House and other Democrats. Dodd said that Corker had been unable to bring any other
Republicans with him. "Baloney," Corker said. "If Dodd had reached an agreement with me, we'd've had at least twenty-
five Republican votes."
The bill that Dodd brought before the Senate, after a year of discussions with Democrats and Republicans alike,
incorporated the bipartisan plan of Warner and Corker to prevent another bank bailout: setting up a fifty-billion-dollar fund,
paid for by the banks, to insure orderly liquidation, and establishing a risk council to detect warning signs of another crisis.
But in mid-April Mitch McConnell—who had just met with Wall Street executives in New York, and was now parroting
talking points from a memo written by the Republican strategist Frank Luntz—called it a "partisan bill" that "will guarantee
perpetual taxpayer bailout of Wall Street banks." McConnell presented a letter, signed by all forty-one Republicans,
suggesting that they would filibuster the financial-reform bill.
His remarks amounted to a repudiation of Corker's work as well as of Dodd's. The next day, April 15th, Corker pleaded
with his colleagues, in his Tennessee twang, "Let's come to the floor and let's act like adults. Let's tone down the rhetoric.
Let's don't exaggerate the pluses or minuses. Let's do what the Senate was created to do. . . . We were supposed to be
the people that took some of the red-hot activities that sometimes come from the other body and sat down with cooler
heads and resolved the issues like adults. We can do that. As a matter of fact, I would say, if we cannot do that on
financial regulation, an issue that really doesn't have any real philosophical bearings to it . . ." Corker didn't allow the
thought to ripen—he had already gone farther than almost any Republican would have dared.
Dodd spoke later in the day and completed Corker's speech: "I know my friends on the other side of the aisle are faced
with a difficult choice between supporting their party leadership and participating in this complicated, difficult debate. I am
not naïve. I know that is a hard place to be. But if we can't act like U.S. senators for the sake of this issue . . . then why
are we even here?" He went on, "We work for an American public that is sick and tired of feeling like no one is looking out
for their interests, like the political hacks and lobbyists hold all the cards in these discussions. The minority seems intent
on proving them right. . . . I have been here a long time. I know this institution is better than that. I know there are friends
of mine on the other side of the aisle who care about this bill, who want to be a part of the debate, who want to be part of
the solution."
In the same speech, Dodd joined the partisan fight, accusing McConnell of lying about the bill. Turning crimson-faced, he
chopped the air with his hand as he shouted, "I have to ask myself, why did I go through this process over the last four or
five months, agreeing to much of what they were offering, and there is not a single political vote to show for it. . . . I have
to say to the younger members, the newer members coming along: be careful!"
Corker, having heard that Dodd was speaking, returned to the chamber and asked to respond. "You and I went a long
way," Corker told Dodd. "Then we stopped. On March 10th it ended. I understand that, look, you were losing Democrats
on your committee."
"And I was not gaining Republicans," Dodd replied.
"You had one, and that is all you asked for when you started. I never said I could speak for anybody but myself. And I did
not leave the table." Corker urged Dodd to keep talking to Republicans—their differences could be sorted out in a few
days.
But this was not McConnell's agenda. Instead, financial reform became a slightly more polite repeat of the health-care-
reform brawl: the Republicans threatened filibusters, the Democrats threatened all-nighters, and thousands of lobbyists
prowled the Capitol, charging their Wall Street clients more than a billion dollars. On April 28th, I was sitting in the ornate
Reception Room with Jim Manley, Reid's spokesman. On the other side of the wall, there was the noise of furniture
scraping across a tile floor. "Those are cots being set up in the L.B.J. Room," Manley said. "Very little happens around
here without a deadline." The cots persuaded Republicans to allow the bill to move to the floor for debate. A few weeks
later, on May 20th, yet another filibuster was defeated by yet another cloture motion, and financial reform finally came to a
vote. It passed, 59-39. Only four Republicans had joined the majority. Corker wasn't among them. He had even voted for
an amendment, offered by his Republican colleague Jeff Sessions, of Alabama, that would have scrapped Corker's work
of many months with Warner.
"The idea of watching Bob Corker vote for the Sessions amendment!" Dodd said afterward, sitting in his red-curtained
office, under a print of Holbein's portrait of Thomas More. "It's the Senate, I guess." McConnell's strategy of obstruction
had once again come close to succeeding, Dodd said, but he knew that a "shrinking number" of Republicans were
frustrated. The previous day, Dodd had said to Susan Collins, "God, I would have loved to have you as my ranking
member on this." Collins responded, "We could have had such a great time on this bill."
Warner, who said that he believed in bipartisanship because "the American people don't trust either political party enough
to give them a blank check," was astonished that so few Republicans voted for financial reform. "There was zero
substantive reason why this couldn't have been eighty votes," he said. I asked him why Bob Corker had voted no on the
bill. Warner started to talk about the consumer-protection title, and then said, "If you want to vote against something, you
can always find your reasons."
But Corker hadn't seemed to want to vote against it. He had spent months trying to act like a U.S. senator, alienating
himself from his own party and then the other party, and on the day of the vote he held the floor for the better part of thirty
minutes, as if he were still reluctant to let the effort go. "I am obviously disappointed," he said. "I think I have spent as
much time as any senator. . . on policy regarding our financial system. I think any bill—even this bill—has good things in
it. There is no question. And I appreciate the thrust. But I think there is a lot of overreaching, and I think not enough time
was spent on some of the core issues."
As the senators cast their votes, I noticed Robert Kaiser, the author of "So Damn Much Money," in the press gallery. I later
asked him if, with the passage of two big reform bills in three months, we were witnessing a possible renewal of the
Senate. "If you can engage public opinion in a way politicians can understand, public opinion can still blow away money
and interest groups," he said. "But over the past few decades the reflex has grown in the Senate that, all things
considered, it's better to avoid than to take on big issues. This is the kind of thing that drives Michael Bennet nutty: here
you've arrived in the United States Senate and you can't do fuck-all about the destruction of the planet."
After the final vote on financial reform, the Republicans flew home, and the Democratic leaders held a press conference,
smiling before the microphones outside the Senate chamber. Reid said, "For those who wanted to protect Wall Street, it
didn't work." He then excused himself: he had to join Biden for a telephone fund-raiser with "some Nevadans."
Durbin said, "I was stunned that only four Republicans would join us in passing this historic legislation. What does it take
to bring the Republican Party into the conversation about the future of America?"
Dodd, glowing with triumph, said, "I wanted to demonstrate that the Senate of the United States could conduct its
business much as our founders intended. We did that."
On July 21st, President Obama signed the completed bill. The two lasting achievements of this Senate, financial
regulation and health care, required a year and a half of legislative warfare that nearly destroyed the body. They
depended on a set of circumstances—a large majority of Democrats, a charismatic President with an electoral mandate,
and a national crisis—that will not last long or be repeated anytime soon. Two days after financial reform became law,
Harry Reid announced that the Senate would not take up comprehensive energy-reform legislation for the rest of the year.
And so climate change joined immigration, job creation, food safety, pilot training, veterans' care, campaign finance,
transportation security, labor law, mine safety, wildfire management, and scores of executive and judicial appointments on
the list of matters that the world's greatest deliberative body is incapable of addressing. Already, you can feel the Senate
slipping back into stagnant waters.
ILLUSTRATION: STEVE BRODNER
• Print
• E-Mail
• Feeds
Share:
• Facebook
• Twitter
• Digg
• More
To get more of The New Yorker's signature mix of politics, culture and the arts: Subscribe now
Related Links
Ask the Author: Join a live chat with George Packer about the Senate on Wednesday, August 4, at 3 P.M. E.T.
Read more http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2010/08/09/100809fa fact packer?printable=true#ixzz0vT1PYxi7
---

Yes they should have known.
---

Long New Yorker article on dysfunction of Senate
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
---

ok
---

hes back at home at nyc apartment
apparently doing well
lauren will have on call list
B6
---

MS -
We're hoping you'll be ok with taking one of the videos you were going to record tomorrow - the one for the Pakistani
audience - and instead deliver the remarks live in the Treaty Room, one of those things where you just pop out the side
door, make a statement, vamanose back through the doors
You have the time in the morning, we'd be dropping a video, and it will have ten times the impact. And to sweeten the
deal...
We can scrub BOTH flood related videos and merge their remarks into one live Treaty Room Statement
Please let us know so we can make the necessary changes and preparations.
PIR
---

Below is the actual Rice statement
USUN PRESS RELEASE #157 August
2, 2010
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Statement by Ambassador Susan E. Rice, U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations, on Secretary
General Ban's Panel Concerning the May 31 Flotilla Incident
The United States welcomes today's announcement by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the
establishment of a Panel regarding the incident of May 31st- We thank both governments for the constructive
and cooperative spirit they have shown and the Secretary General for his leadership and determination. The
Panel, which has the support of both Israel and Turkey, will receive and review the reports of each
government's national investigation into the incident and make recommendations as to how to avoid such
incidents in the future. This Panel is not a substitute for those national investigations. It complements them,
affording Israel and Turkey the opportunity to present the conclusions of their investigations to the international
community. The focus of the Panel is appropriately on the future and on preventing such incidents from
recurring. The United States also hopes that the Panel can serve as a vehicle to enable Israel and Turkey to
move beyond the recent strains in their relationship and repair their strong historic ties.
The United States expects that the Panel will operate in a transparent and credible manner and that its work will
be the primary method for the international community to review the incident, obviating the need for any
overlapping international inquiries. The United States welcomes the naming of the former Prime Minister of
New Zealand, Geoffrey Palmer, as Chair and the outgoing President of Colombia, Alvaro Uribe, as Vice-Chair.
We look forward to the announcement of the two additional members from Israel and Turkey.
###
This email is UNCLASSIFIED.
This email is UNCLASSIFIED.
---

Fyi
---

During the past year we have discussed the size of the Germany PD budget and the fact that it did not reflect current
priorities. EUR reviewed the budget and made the decision to cut the German PD budget by 30% and reallocate the
funding to other areas, primarily Eastern Europe. As you will see from the email below and the attached memo, Mission
Germany responded by reviewing all their PD operations and developing an entirely new approach based on the PD
strategic framework we rolled out earlier this year. I think they did an excellent job and we will be using this as a model
for other Missions as we go forward.
Let me know what you think.
jm
---


---


---

MS -
We're hoping you'll be ok with taking one of the videos you were going to record tomorrow - the one for the Pakistani
audience - and instead deliver the remarks live in the Treaty Room, one of those things where you just pop out the side
door, make a statement, vamanose back through the doors
You have the time in the morning, we'd be dropping a video, and it will have ten times the impact. And to sweeten the
deal...
We can scrub BOTH flood related videos and merge their remarks into one live Treaty Room Statement
Please let us know so we can make the necessary changes and preparations.
PIR
---

Ever since you've become a Mother-in-Law you've been very funny
---

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am "MONDAY" MEETING w/ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:00 am Principals Conference Room 7516
10:00am STATEMENT ON PAKISTANI FLOOD RELIEF
10:15am Treaty Room
10:15 am VIDEOS (7)
10:25 am George Marshall Room, 7th Floor
10:30 am OFFICE TIME
11:00 am Secretary's Office
11:00 am MEETING w/SENATOR JOHN KERRY
11:30 am Secretary's Office
11:30 am OFFICE TIME
2:15 pm Secretary's Office
2:15 pm COURTESY VISIT w/GENERAL JAMES 1VIATTIS
3:00 pm Secretary's Office
3:00 pm MEETING w/JUDITH McHALE
3:30 pm Secretary's Office
3:30 pm OFFICE TIME
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department
En route Private Residence
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
---

FYI. Will keep you posted.
---

fyi
---


---

Mikulski, BAM (Mikulski) <BAM@Mikulski.senate.gov>
Wednesday, August 4, 2010 9:32 PM
Good news
Shortly after we talked. Got word that. Pres. Bill was coming to do an event for me. In oct. This the $$$ and juice we
need. Will thank him myself but if you see him first --- give him a bug 4 me H!! Great getting caught up
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
---

Importance:
fyi
McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA@state.gov>
Thursday, August 5, 2010 7:52 AM
H
FW: Ruto and the "No" team concede defeat in Kenya's Constitutional Referendum
High
---

Fyi,
---

FYI — the Philippines compact was approved unanimously.
---

I know you're meeting with Peggy tom'w.
Melanne S. Verveer
Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues
U.S. Department of State
2201 C Street NW, Room 6805
Washington, DC 20520
Tel: (202) 647-7283
Fax: (202) 647-7288
VerveerMS@state.gov
---

FYI, a video and note that will make you smile.
Enjoy!
jm
1.Closing Wrap-up Video from Forum (produced by IIP and huge hit)
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uZ8kpXbql1c
2.Thank-you Letter from Cameroon Delegate to Embassy
Dear All,
Good morning from Washington DC. I trust that we are keeping well. I just want to use this opportunity to say that today
we come to the end of the program here on the President's Forum. All along this Forum and especially during the White
House meeting with President Obama, I have been asking myself what it means to be here in DC and to be representing
Cameroon at this forum?
I have recently come to the realization that the time is critical and that President Obama in his thinking about a new
Africa believes that young people whom we are, diverse and intelligently different can take little positive actions to
ensure that the next 50 years witnesses significant changes in our social processes, our political institutions, processes
and structures, our economic freedom, taking into consideration our cultural specificities.
While traveling to America, I kept imagining the moment when President Obama would tell us great and magical ways to
getting out of our current socio-economic and especially political hostage situations, but in all and after all the speeches,
conversations and interactions with Ordinary Americans like in the Southside of Washington DC, State Department Staff,
Senators, Secretary of State Clinton and President Obama, I noticed that America can only partner with us when we
decide to start thinking and acting differently in our quest for a better Cameroon and a better Africa.
This thinking differently is exemplified by the American Peace Corps, in the service leadership, the spirit of give back to
the nation and community and the transformation of challenges to opportunities in America and in many nations
around the world...
When our troubles and challenges seems gruesome and our vision blurred by the thought and fear of the unknown if we
dared, the one thing I come out with from this Forum is this, "That we just have to Think, Speak out and above all, DARE
take some innovative ACTIONs to Be the change we want to see in our communities, nations and continent and commit
others to same by our examples...That we have to build strong networks and undertake advocacies as a group as
nothing has ever stopped a committed group of people to drive change aound the world.
The work to be done is enormous and challenging but sure the reward of every success like coming to America, to the
White House and meeting with President Obama is sweet. Therefore I come back to work to be the change I want to see
in Cameroon.
I thank you all for the opportunity.
---


---

FYI
---

Verma, Richard R <VermaRR@state.gov>
Thursday, August 5, 2010 10:14 PM
Mills, Cheryl D; Abedin, Huma; Sullivan, Jacob J; Rodriguez, Miguel E
Ambassadors
We had 31 noms on the Exec Calendar as of tonight. The following 27 made it thru:
Jeffrey (Iraq)
Williams (Niger)
Carter (Cote d'Ivoire)
Feierstein (Yemen)
Reed-Rowe (Palau)
Moon (Bosnia)
Murray (Republic of Congo)
StoreIla (Zambia)
Likins (Peru)
McKinley (Colombia)
Dougherty (Burkina Faso)
Benjaminson (Gabon)
Connelly (Lebanon)
Smith (Greece)
Entwistle (Dem Rep Congo)
Wohlers (Cent Af Rep)
Fergin (E.Timor)
Owen (Sierra Leone)
Jackson (Cameroon)
Wolff (Chile)
Marcie! (Indonesia)
McCulley (Nigeria)
Bridgewater (Jamaica)
Bond (Lesotho)
Jones (Malaysia)
Powers (Powers)
Arreaga (Iceland)
The following 4 remain on the floor:
Ricciardone (Turkey)
Aponte (El Salvador)
Ford (Syria)
Yzaguirre (Dominican Republic)
---

Agree - as do others
---

Great work
---

Development PLAN - ExecSum.docx
As you may be aware, earlier this year, OIG issued a very negative report on our Public Diplomacy operations
throughout Africa. I have attached a copy of the action plan which Johnnie and his team developed to address the
issues raised in the report. The plan is a very deliberate effort to address the shortcomings identified by the 01G, do a
better job of integrating public diplomacy and public affairs into the whole AF Bureau, and deliver better PD and PA
work.
I think it is an excellent report and provides a good model for the bureaus as we endeavor to create a new direction for
Public Diplomacy.
---

Madam Secretary,
As requested, below is a brief bio (compiled by DK, INR, and AF) of Kenyan Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs Richard
Momoima Onyonka, who you met in Krakow at the Community of Democracies. Please let me know if you would like
any further information or follow up on this.
Thanks,
Mike
Richard Momoima Onyonka is a Kenyan politician and belongs to the People's Democratic Party. Born in 1962 and
hailing from the Bogeka clan, VM Momoima has lived in Otamba, Nyamataro, Mosocho and Nairobi. In 1982, following
the failed Kenyan coup d'etat attempt to overthrow President Daniel Arap Moi's government, VM Momoima was among
the 900 people that were jailed. However, in 1984, he returned to the University of Nairobi and graduated with a
Bachelors degree in commerce a year later. After graduation, VM Momoima attended North Carolina State University
where he graduated with a Masters degree in management. He returned to Kenya in 1992 during the first multi party
elections to help his father (then incumbent MP for Kitutu Chache and Minister for Planning and National Development)
who was seeking re-election on a KANU (Kenya African National Union) ticket. VM Momoima's first political opportunity
arose when his father passed away in 1996, which prompted an election in which he lost to a new corner during the
party (KANU) nominations. Since the Kenyan parliamentary election in 2007, VM Momoima has represented the Kitutu
Chache Constituency in the National Assembly of Kenya.
A financial economist by profession, VM Momoima currently runs personal businesses in Nairobi and Kisii and has held
positions in the Kisii KANU branch. His priorities include economic empowerment, particularly for youth and women,
education, and poverty reduction.
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-1709
B6
---

Yes, I'll see if we can locate that
---

FYI — see below for update on UNFPA head selection process.
---

The prez has agreed to participate if we can nail down assurance. That means a call from you to their guy Monday
(possibly Sun) and follow up by the prez.
---

Will do
---

RELEASE IN PART B5,B6
---

Will do
---


---

As I mentioned in an email yesterday, the team is proposing that you call Bibi on Monday afternoon. We can set it up if
you give the green light.
---

I am traveling overseas and only have sporadic access to my email. If you need immediate assistance, please call State
Department Operations at 202-647-1512 and ask for Joanne Lasczcych who can assist you.
cdm
---

Fyi
---

McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA@state.gov>
Sunday, August 8, 2010 6:48 AM
Mills, Cheryl D; Sullivan, Jacob J
FW: aid workers
im
---

came to the beach on friday nite to having a good time - hope wedding was great.
nothing to report other than chris will stay through next fri
also talking to torn
On Sat, Aug 7, 2010 at 7:31 PM, H <HDR22@c1intonemail.com> wrote:
I'm in a car (on the way to another wedding!) on Long Island for the next hour. You can call me thru Ops on
my bb. Hope you had a good day.
B6
---

We're preparing a statement to go out from you once it's confirmed that six of the deceased are Americans. Will send
to you once otherwise fully cleared.
---

+ Philippe
We believe you should go on camera tomorrow.
We have been working the written statement overnight and will put it out shortly.
---

Just spoke with David and RI. The bodies have been recovered and identified. Phillipe is working with Kabul on your
written statement. I raised the possibilty of your going on camera tomorrow and have asked Phillipe to weigh in on
message and timing.
Jm
---

Reines, Philippe I <reinesp@state.gov>
Sunday, August 8, 2010 9:45 AM
Sullivan, Jacob J; H; McHale, Judith A
Mills, Cheryl D; Abedin, Huma; Valmoro, Lona 1
Re: aid workers
I just emailed you about statement
---

Ok
---


---

Cc: Jake Sullivan; megrooney(
MS-
Below is a statement drafted by Megan, reviewed and edited by me, Jake, SRAP and others, and with your ok will go out
immediately (pis ignore any spacing or formatting issues):
SECRETARY OF STATE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON
###
---


---

That's right. You should leave here at 7:45 to be safe to catch the 11.
---

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ©state.gov>
Sunday, August 8, 2010 1:46 PM
Fw: UNFPA - additional information
Below is further info on the three UNFPA names.
---

FedEx to my house
RELEASE IN PART B6
---

FedEx to my house
RELEASE IN PART B6
---

August 8, 2010
Gary Sick
America and Iran: Strikes, Sanctions and Scapegoats
For the pundits, there are only two questions about U.S.-Iran relations that are of any importance: (1) Will Israel
and/or the United States attack Iran? and (2) will the new sanctions have enough bite to persuade Iran to change
its nuclear policy? Despite all the printers ink spilled on these two issues, the answers are an easy no and no.
Neither the United States nor Israel will take the military option off the table, thereby giving the pundits (and the
crowd that is dying to repeat Iraq) latitude to keep the distant prospect of military action on the front pages,
where it has been for years. As a lede, it sells columns and newspapers, so it will not go away. But as analysis it
is either blinded by the momentary hype or else is simple wish fulfillment.
Uber-neocon John Bolton had it right. If any such attack were to occur, it would have been at the end of the Bush
administration when there was nothing left to lose. Bolton thought it was so inevitable that he predicted it
unequivocally in a Wall Street Journal column in 2008. Dick Cheney apparently agreed, judging from his
subsequent statements of regret. So it is fair to say that George W. Bush, after looking the potential
consequences, resisted the advice of his neocon advisers, his previously dominant vice president, and the
reported direct request from the government of Israel — and rejected a strike. What is the likelihood that Barack
Obama, with the same catastrophic scenario before him, will approve? Forget it.
Sanctions do not persuade dictatorial regimes to abandon projects that they think are central to their security
and survival or even their self-image. Just look at Saddam Hussein. The international sanctions imposed on Iraq
in the 1980s make the current Iran sanctions appear anemic in comparison. Every item that went in and out of
Iraq was subject to approval by a UN committee dominated by a vindictive United States. Yet, although Iraq had
abandoned its nuclear weapons program years earlier, Saddam could not bring himself to let his own people and
his enemies know that. Instead he was prepared to gamble that the United States would not attack him.
One of the reasons for this bad bet was that he and his cronies were doing so well under the sanctions that there
was no immediate necessity to come clean. They, after all, controlled the smuggling routes. And their henchmen
managed the thriving and enormously lucrative black market. As for concern with their own people, a rotund
Tariq Aziz, sitting with a fine Scotch and a Cuban cigar, informed a worried UN representative that it would be
good for the Iraqi people to lose some weight. An Iraqi friend of mine told me at the time that the sanctions had
made criminals of the entire Iraqi middle class, which had to resort to illegal behavior in order to survive. The
biggest – and most successful – of this new criminal class was the privileged group immediately around Saddam
Hussein.
Which brings us to Iran. The sanctions are more effective than many anticipated. They have built a web of
financial restrictions and limitations around the already weak Iranian economy that is certain to cause significant
problems for the leadership. Iran's critical energy sector is particularly vulnerable. It is in a pincer. Because of
cheap energy prices inside the country, artificially propped up by massive subsidies, energy demand is soaring.
This siphons off a lot of Iran's oil production, which would otherwise be sold on the world market for hard
currency.
At the same time, because Iran's oil fields are old and complex, they require modern technology to maintain
production. That technology – and the capital investment that can only be provided by the major international oil
companies – has been absent for many years. It was driven away partly by the sanctions, ironically assisted by
Iran's own short-sighted negotiating tactics that offered only the most meager profit margins to outside
investors. As a result, Iran's oil production is in decline at the same time that more and more of it is being soaked
up by domestic consumption. In a period of relatively low oil prices, this means that Iran's hard currency
earnings are drying up at an alarming rate.
This unenviable economic situation is compounded by what has to be described as perhaps the least competent
economic management team of any major country in the world. Ayatollah Khamene'i, the Supreme Leader,
seems totally preoccupied with bolstering his own shaky political legitimacy by pandering to the Revolutionary
Guards who surround and protect him. The result is corruption on a scale beyond anything the shah's regime
could have imagined.
President Ahmadinejad, also a creature of the Revolutionary Guards, is free to indulge his taste for outlandish
and irresponsible rhetoric. His words keep the international and domestic spotlight glued to him; but the effect
drives away prospective investors and facilitates the U.S. drive to enlist international support for sanctions
against Iran. An American Jewish leader once joked with me that he suspected Ahmadinejad was a Mossad
agent: no one, he observed, had been more helpful in promoting donations to Israel and Israeli causes. At the
same time, under his leadership Iran has inflation and unemployment that are both in double digits.
But to be fair, Ahmadinejad is the first politician in modern Iranian history willing to address the "third rail" of
Iranian politics — the immensely costly subsidies on food and energy. His initial efforts to reduce the amount of
subsidized gasoline that Iranians could use met with outbursts of indignation, including torching filling stations.
But these rules now seem to be grudgingly accepted and have eased slightly Iran's energy dilemma. He is now
addressing the low tax rates assessed against merchants. This has also resulted in outrage, including closing
the bazaars in Iran and other major cities. But his campaign seems to be making progress.
These are needed reforms that would be recommended by any responsible economic overseer, including the
International Monetary Fund. Ahmadinejad attempts to balance his daring assaults on the entrenched economic
interests by his belligerent rhetoric, always casting himself as the champion of the little guy. In that he resembles
his populist predecessors, from Juan Peron to Huey Long to Hugo Chavez. Ahmadinejad takes on America and
Israel the way Governor Long took on Standard Oil. But like other populists, Ahmadinejad is the prisoner of his
own eccentric view of the world and his loyalty to lieutenants who may or may not be worthy of his faith in them.
The key question about Iran today is not whether it will be attacked or collapse under sanctions. It is whether Iran
is capable under its present leadership to take a sober decision about how to deal with the outside world. The
Revolutionary Guards have established a dominant position in Iran's military, its economy, and its politics. Iran
increasingly comes to resemble the corporatist states of southern and eastern Europe in the 1920s and '30s that
we call fascist. Iran is conducting an interior battle with its own demons, from the millenarians on the far right
who choose to believe that Khamene'i is the personal representative of God on earth, to the pragmatic
conservatives who simply want a more responsible leadership, to the reformists of the Green movement whose
objective is to put the "republic" back into the Islamic Republic by giving the people a greater voice.
This is a yeasty and unpredictable mix. No one knows what is going to happen next.
And this is the reality that the Obama administration must deal with. The danger is not that the administration will
back the wrong horse in Iran. The real danger is that the Obama administration will be so preoccupied with
domestic American politics and its constant demand to look tough when dealing with Iran that it will
inadvertently rescue this cruel but hapless regime from its own ineptitude by providing a convenient scapegoat
for everything that goes wrong in Iran.
---


---

Jiloty, Lauren C <JilotyLC@state.gov>
Monday, August 9, 2010 9:31 AM
H
Re: Sad news re
Ok
---

Russo, Robert V <RussoRV@state.gov>
Monday, August 9, 2010 3:48 PM
betsyebelin
H; Huma Abedin; Jiloty, Lauren C
RE:
FYI - I am placing the note in the mail to you this afternoon via FedEx priority overnight. You should receive it tomorrow
morning, before 10am. Here is the tracking number: Let me know if you have any questions.
---

Dennis finally completed his call with Molho, after two hours of secure phone technology travails. He gave me a brief
readout. I can provide, or you might just call him.
---


---

One thing I forgot to mention - Bill B and Mike Posner recommend that you release the below statement. Apparently
Hamidi's execution is imminent. With your approval we'll put out.
DRAFT STATEMENT BY SECRETARY CLINTON
Urging Iran to Respect the Fundamental Freedoms of its Citizens
The United States is deeply concerned that Iran continues to deny its citizens their civil rights, as well as to intimidate
and detain those Iranians who seek to hold their government accountable and who stand up for the rights of their
fellow citizens. We remain troubled by the case of Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani, who garnered international attention
for her verdict of death by stoning. While the Iranian government later stated she would not face execution by stoning,
her fate has been left unclear. We are also troubled by reports that Ebrahim Hamidi, an 18-year old charged with
homosexuality, faces imminent execution despite the fact that he is currently without legal representation. Neither of
their cases have proceeded with the transparency or due process enshrined in Iran's own constitution and their lawyer,
Mohammad Mostafaei, felt that he had no other choice than to flee Iran after he had been questioned by authorities
and his family members had been detained.
We are also concerned about the fate of Iranians who are in danger of imminent execution for exercising their right to
free expression after the June 2009 elections, including Jafar Kazemi, Mohammad Haj Aghaei, and Javad Lan.
The United States urges the Iranian government to halt these executions in accordance with its international obligations
to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners
and imprisoned human rights defenders. The United States will continue to stand with people all around the world who
seek to exercise their universal rights and to speak out in defense of human liberties.
---

I just checked and we don't. I will get updated contact information for them today. All we have is a home phone
number of and a mailing address: I'll send you
the updates when I get it.
---

Got it:
---


---

FYI
---

B6'
RELEASE IN PART B6
---


---


---

Ebeling, Betsy <
Wednesday, August 11, 2010 9:28 AM
H; Huma Abedin; abedinh@state.gov; RussoRV@state.gov
Something has gone haywire with my blackberry (oh no!!) so I must apologize if you have already
heard from me and if not, apologize again for the delay in getting back to you with my update. Rob,
the letter arrived on time and and I delivered it to the family at the wake last
night, and the kids were so touched by the letter and the effort made by all of you. said
through tears: that wonderful woman!! And that you are, my Dear Gert. Your words meant so
much to the kids and They were showing it, very carefully, to s family, especially her
father. This was a hard one. Love you, B
---

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Wednesday, August 11, 2010 9:51 AM
Ebeling, Betsy; H; Huma Abedin; Russo, Robert V
RE:
He wrote a very beautiful email for hrc which we just printed for her
---

Good so far...
---

Senate will go into session tomorrow to pass border security bill by uc.
---

I should have left the blackberry in dc...but yes thanks for the reminder!
---


---

FYI
Now one event (WFP and UNICEF — Sheeran and Lake will now be part of our event at UNGA).
cdm
---

Fyi - Johnnie's conversation w prez of Ghana.
---

Published on The New Republic (http://www.tnr.com)
The Unnecessary Fall
A counter-history of the Obama presidency.
• John B. Judis
• August 12, 2010 I 12:00 am
On April 14, 2009, as Barack Obama's standing in the polls was beginning to slip, and as Tea Party demonstrators were
amassing in Washington for tax day protests, the president gave a lengthy address atGeorgetown University explaining the
"five pillars" of his economic policies. The speech was intended to promote a memorable slogan for Obama's program that
would evoke comparisons with Theodore Roosevelt's Square Deal, Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal, and Lyndon Johnson's
Great Society.
Obama's contribution was to be the New Foundation. "We must lay a new foundation for growth and prosperity—a
foundation that will move us from an era of borrow and spend to one where we save and invest," he declared. Obama
would repeat the phrase seven times that day and on many more occasions over the next months. At Obama's private
White House dinner with presidential historians that June, the historians were no more impressed than the public with
the New Foundation as a slogan. "I don't think it's going to work," Robert Dallek warned. Doris Kearns Goodwin said it
sounded "like a woman's girdle."
One of these historians might have been able to forewarn Obama that the slogan had been unsuccessfully deployed by a
Democratic president once before. In his 1979 State of the Union address, Jimmy Carter began, "Tonight, I want to
examine in a broad sense the state of our American Union—how we are building a new foundation for a peaceful and a
prosperous world." Carter would use the phrase five times in the speech, including in its conclusion, where he asked
members of Congress to join him "in building that new foundation." Like Obama's effort, the phrase inspired, at most, a
few underwear jokes and was then forgotten.
Obama's evocation of Carter was obviously unintended—but the Man from Plains is indeed the specter now hanging over
his presidency. Of course, Obama has already accomplished more in his first 20 months than Jimmy Carter did during his
entire presidency. But there is a disturbing political resemblance between the two presidencies. Both men ran inspired
campaigns in which they positioned themselves above the scandals and partisan quarrels of their predecessors and
initially stirred hopes of a "transformational" presidency. But, as presidents, both men somehow failed to connect with
large parts of the electorate.
To be sure, there are a number of very specific reasons why Carter and Obama landed in political trouble. Both men
contended with rising unemployment—Carter with rampant inflation as well—and voters' approval of a president and his
party tend to track closely with changes in the economy. Carter faced friction in his own party and the rise of a powerful
business lobby, and Obama has dealt with a Republican Party that has frustrated his dreams of a post-partisan presidency.
Yet the most important reason for their difficulties—evident in their inept attempts to brand their programs—has been an
inability to develop a politics that resonates with the public.
In the United States, politics pivots around the allegiance of the middle class, even as its identity has changed from
yeoman farmers and mechanics to store clerks, office workers, x-ray technicians, and small business owners. They are, in
Bill Clinton's words, "those who work hard and play by the rules." They are the central characters in a populist rhetoric
that goes back to the early republic. It depicts the middle class as embattled and threatened either from forces below
(impoverished immigrants, welfare cheaters, ghetto rioters) or above (Wall Street speculators, state bureaucrats, K Street
lobbyists). Populism can be embraced by Glenn Beck or Tom Harkin. It is intrinsically neither left-wing nor right-wing.
Politicians, such as Franklin Roosevelt or Ronald Reagan, who found a way of using populism's appeal during downturns
have enjoyed success, while those who have spurned it have suffered accordingly. If, in circumstances like the present one,
you don't develop a populist politics, your adversaries will use populism to define you as an enemy of the people. That's
what Carter discovered during the stagflation of the late '70s. And that's what has happened in the last 20 months of the
Great Recession to Barack Obama and to the Democratic Party he leads.
Obama took office with widespread popular support, even among Republicans, and some of his first efforts, including the
$800 billion stimulus, initially enjoyed strong public favor. But that wide appeal began to dissipate by the late spring of
2009. Disillusion with Obama fueled the November defeat of Democratic gubernatorial candidates in New Jersey and
Virginia. By January 2010, it was a crucial factor in Republican Scott Brown's astonishing victory over Martha Coakley in
Massachusetts.
In the postmortem debate over these defeats, some Democrats have blamed Obama's dogged pursuit of health care reform
while the economy was hemorrhaging jobs. That may have been a factor, but the real damage was done earlier. What
doomed Obama politically was the way he dealt with the financial crisis in the first six months of his presidency. In an
atmosphere primed for a populist backlash, he allowed the right wing to define the terms.
As Obama was delivering his inaugural address, the financial crisis was already in full swing; and it was already apparent
that financial speculation, outright fraud, and irresponsible and sometimes illegal housing-loan practices had played a
very large role in precipitating the crisis. The public was up in arms. But, instead of rallying the public against the "money
changers," as Roosevelt had done in his first inaugural, Obama, taking a leaf from Jimmy Carter's infamous "malaise"
speech, put the blame on the public as a whole. "Our economy is badly weakened, a consequence of greed and
irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new
age," he declared.
Over the next month, Obama would periodically criticize bankers after embarrassing revelations—at various times calling
the bonuses they gave themselves "shameful" and an "outrage"—but, after hearing complaints about his rhetoric from the
bankers, he would back off. At a private meeting on March 28 with 13 Wall Street CEOs, the president, his spokesman
Robert Gibbs said, "emphasized that Wall Street needs Main Street and Main Street needs Wall Street." And, in his
Georgetown speech, Obama returned to his theme of collective responsibility. The recession, Obama said, "was caused by
a perfect storm of irresponsibility and poor decision-making that stretched from Wall Street to Washington to Main
Street."
Obama's policy followed the same swerving course as his rhetoric. One week, he would favor harsh restrictions on bank
and insurance-company bonuses, but, the next week, he would waver; one week, he would support legislation allowing
bankruptcy judges to reduce the amount that homeowners threatened with foreclosure owed the banks; the next week, he
would fail to protest when bank lobbyists pressured the Senate to kill these provisions. But, more importantly, Obama—in
sharp contrast to Roosevelt in his first months—failed to push Congress to immediately enact new financial regulations or
even to set up a commission to investigate fraud. (When Congress finally appointed a commission in July 2009, Obama
and his party put a milquetoast Democratic politician, former California State Treasurer Philip Angelides, in charge of it.)
Obama's appointments also conveyed an impression that he wanted to let Wall Street off the hook. He appointed Timothy
Geithner to be treasury secretary. Geithner claimed that he was not part of Wall Street, but, in his capacity as president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, he had served under a board of directors headed by JP Morgan Chase CEO Jamie
Dimon. As New York Fed president, Geithner had been partly responsible for the decision to let Lehman Brothers go
under, for the unpopular tarp program, and for American International Group (MG) paying back its Wall Street creditors
with government money. Geithner chose as his chief of staff a former lobbyist for Goldman Sachs. Retiring Democratic
Senator Byron Dorgan told me, "Most Americans were reading about the massive compensations and bailouts, and the
administration largely hired people from the culture of Wall Street."
By the spring, Obama's apparent tilt to Wall Street had sparked a right-wing populist revolt in the country. The newly
formed Tea Party movement, Beck and Fox News, and a host of right-wing bloggers were leading the charge; but, in a less
extreme form, the general public shared their anger. In an early April New York Times/CBS News poll, the public
disapproved of Obama's aiding the banks by 58 percent to 33 percent. In this same poll, public approval of Obama's
handling of the economy began to fall. Pollsters who did focus groups also traced disillusionment with Obama's economic
policies to his handling of the financial crisis.
Congressman Barney Frank, who defends Obama's policies, acknowledges that the president's political difficulties began
with the revelation that MG, which had received $170 billion from the government, had paid out $165 billion in bonuses
to the division that had brought the company down. Geithner had known about the bonuses but insisted there were no
legal grounds to block them. (It then came out that Geithner had pressured Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris
Dodd to insert a provision in the stimulus bill that protected the bonuses.) "The pitchforks were out. It added injury to
injury," Frank says. That's when public opinion of Geithner plummeted. According to a Rasmussen poll, 24 percent had a
favorable view of Geithner and 44 percent an unfavorable one.
The public's view of the bank bailout and the AIG bonuses colored its view of the auto bailout, the stimulus, and health
care reform. One of the rallying cries for the populist opposition to Obama was "where's my bailout?" (Obama himself
acknowledged that it was "one of the most frequent questions" he was asked in letters.) The auto program became a
bailout for the Big Three CEOs; the stimulus became a bailout of government itself; and health care reform was a bailout
for the uninsured—or "reparations," as Rush Limbaugh put it. Wrote right-wing blogger Michelle Malkin, "hardworking
citizens were getting sick of being played for chumps" by "moochers, big and small, corporate and individual, trampling
over themselves with their hands out demanding endless bailouts." Obama and the Democrats were successfully portrayed
as aiding "the moochers," but not the "hardworking citizens." In American politics, that's a recipe for political disaster.
Some in the White House political operation recognized in the late spring that the administration's economic efforts were
being defined by right-wing populism and tried to push Obama to take a more populist tack. A group within the White
House began calling themselves the "pitchfork gang," but they would find their attempts to convince Obama to get tough
on Wall Street or on insurance companies undermined by Geithner and by National Economic Council head Larry
Summers, who were worried about upsetting business confidence. "There was a continual tension in the White House,"
says a person who was privy to the discussions. "One week, we would be very hot, and then, the next week, we would dial it
back."
By early January of this year, Obama was clearly losing the battle for the middle class. According to a CNN poll, 60 percent
of Americans thought Obama "had paid more attention to the problems faced by banks and other financial institutions"
than to the "problems faced by middle class Americans." Only 28 percent, barely more than a quarter, thought he had paid
more attention to the middle class. As Brown surged ahead of Coakley in the polls, the White House temporarily embraced
a populist approach. On January 14, Obama called the bank bonuses "obscene" and said, "we want our money back." In a
January 22 speech at Lorain County Community College in Elyria, Ohio (a far cry from Georgetown), Obama used the
word "fighting" 13 times and "fight" nine times. "I will not stop fighting for you," he declared.
But, faced with a falling stock market and anger from Wall Street, Obama once again turned conciliatory. On February io,
he said that he didn't "begrudge" the $17 million bonus awarded to Dimon and the $9 million to Goldman Sachs CEO
Lloyd Blankfein. "I know both guys. They are very savvy businessmen."
Obama's reluctance to rail against Wall Street might have led to a watered-down financial reform bill, or even no bill at all,
but, on April 16, the Securities and Exchange Commission indicted Goldman Sachs for fraud. The next week, an
emboldened Obama went to New York to criticize the bankers directly for their "failure of responsibility." As a result of the
indictment and Obama's rediscovery of his anger, Republicans became somewhat less obstructionist, moderate
Republicans broke with the party's leadership, and moderate Democrats fell into line. Congress produced a much stronger
bill than the Democrats had ever expected.
But Obama's embrace of populism has remained fitful and sporadic. After the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Verizon's
Ivan Seidenberg, the head of the Business Roundtable, criticized Obama for being anti-business in June, the president
dispatched Geithner, White House aide Valerie Jarrett, and Bill Clinton to appease the business community. Obama has
said enough to anger the CEOs, but he has failed to convey to the greater public that he is fighting for them.
Obama's unwillingness to buck Wall Street and the Business Roundtable, along with his delayed and muddled response to
the BP disaster in the Gulf, has eroded the public's confidence in his leadership. In Pew's midyear report card on Obama's
image, the greatest drop from February 2009 to this June was in the perception of Obama as a "strong leader." Voters will
sometimes tolerate policies they question from presidents like John Kennedy or Reagan, whom they regard as "strong,"
but not from politicians like Jimmy Carter, whom they regard as weak.
What of the other factors behind Obama's political difficulties? There is no doubt that, if the economy were growing faster,
and if unemployment were dropping below 9 percent, Obama and the Democrats would be more popular and not fearing a
November rout. But, unfortunately, the economy's sluggish recovery cannot be completely disentangled from the White
House's weak political performance.
In January, when the White House debated how large a stimulus to propose, Christina Romer, the head of the Council of
Economic Advisors, proposed a $1.2 trillion Keynesian jolt. David Obey, the chairman of the House Budget Committee,
told The Fiscal Times that Obama's Treasury Department asked initially for a $1.4 trillion bill. But the administration
finally proposed a stimulus between $700 and $800 billion that included large tax cuts that were more likely to stimulate
saving than consumption—and spending that would be unlikely to produce many jobs until the end of Obama's first term.
In the stimulus's first year, the administration spent only $17 billion of the $139 billion allocated for
infrastructure spending.
Prominent economists, including Paul Krugman and Joseph Stiglitz, made the case that a much larger stimulus was
necessary to reverse (rather than merely reduce) the rise in unemployment, and that, if a modest stimulus failed to reduce
unemployment, Republicans would convince the public that the stimulus was toxic medication and would block additional
Keynesian measures. That argument has been proven sadly correct. Some White House advisers appear to have
underestimated the depth of the Great Recession. Others seem to have doubted the administration had the political clout
to get more from Congress.
But the White House might have gotten more if Obama had proclaimed a national economic emergency (which it was);
framed the issue in terms of rescuing the middle class from damage done by Wall Street speculators, short-sighted CEOs,
and Chinese mercantilism; and directly attacked Republicans as heartless obstructionists. When Obama belatedly made
this sort of case on the eve of the financial reform vote this year, he got a much stronger bill than anyone had anticipated.
So it's not clear that the failure to get a larger stimulus—which has ended up hurting the administration politically—wasn't
itself a result of political timidity.
The president has also suffered from an inability to explain to the public why he sought such a large stimulus and what he
thought it could accomplish. Obama's New Foundation speech at Georgetown was soon forgotten. Afterward, Obama, to
the dismay of Democrats in Congress and some of his White House aides, pretty much dropped the jobs issue. From then
to Labor Day, he devoted a July visit to Buffalo and an August stopover in southern Indiana to the issue—at a time when
the right wing was mobilizing against him. Obama didn't just fail to develop a consistent narrative about the economy; he
didn't really try.
Contrast Obama's attempt to develop a politics to justify his economic program with what Reagan did in 1982. Faced with
steadily rising unemployment, which went from 8.6 percent in January to 10.4 percent in November, Reagan and his
political staff, which included James Baker, Mike Deaver, and Ed Rollins, forged a strategy early that year calling for
voters to "stay the course" and blaming the current economic troubles on Democratic profligacy. "We are clearing away
the economic wreckage that was dumped in our laps," Reagan declared. Democrats accused them of playing "the blame
game," but the strategy, followed to the letter by the White House for ten months, worked. The Republicans were
predicted to lose as many as 50 House seats, but they lost only 26 and broke even in the Senate.
Some commentators have noted Reagan's popularity was even lower than Obama's. But, on key economic questions, he
did much better than Obama and the Democrats are currently performing—and voters expressed far greater patience with
Reagan's program. According to polls, even as the unemployment rate climbed, a narrow plurality still expressed
confidence that Reagan's program would help the economy. On the eve of the election, with the unemployment rate at a
postwar high, a New York Times/CBS News poll found that 6o percent of likely voters thought Reagan's economic
program would eventually help the country. That's a sign of a successful political operation. If Obama could command
those numbers, Democrats could seriously limit their losses in November. But Obama has not been able to develop a
narrative that could convince people to trust him and the Democrats.
Why has the White House failed to convince the public that it is fighting effectively on its behalf? The principal culprit is
clearly Barack Obama. He has a strange aversion to confrontational politics. His aversion is strange because he was
schooled in it, working as a community organizer in the 198os, under the tutelage of activists who subscribed to teachings
of the radical Saul Alinsky. But, when Obama departed for Harvard Law School in 1988, he left Alinsky and adversarial
tactics behind.
The young lawyer who returned to Chicago and won a seat in the Illinois state Senate in 1996 practiced a very different
style of politics. Obama's principal accomplishments in Springfield were bills restricting lobbying and requiring
videotaping of confessions in potential death penalty cases. He was not a typical blue-collar, bread-and-butter Chicago
Democrat, but the kind of good government liberal that represents the upscale districts of the city, seeing in politics a
higher calling and ill at ease with (although not in open opposition to) the city's Democratic machine. He was also a post-
racial politician who eschewed the hard-edged, angry rhetoric of Jesse Jackson. (That, too, is oddly reminiscent of Carter,
who partly campaigned in 1976 as the white Southern antidote to George Wallace's angry racial populism.)
Obama carried this outlook into the U.S. Senate, into his campaign for the presidency, and then, into the presidency itself.
He is a cerebral, dispassionate, post-partisan; he wants to "end the political strategy that has been based on division," to
"turn the page" on the culture wars of the 1960s and the partisan battles of the 1990s. During the campaign, his aides
jokingly referred to him as the "black Jesus." While he can tolerate and even brush aside conflict, he is reluctant to actively
foment it. "In a time of crisis, we can't afford to govern out of anger," he declared in February 2009. During his campaign
and his first year in office, he held to a blind faith in bipartisanship, even as the Republicans voted as a bloc against his
legislation. He is, perhaps, ill-suited in these respects for an era of bruising political warfare.
His advisers have clearly reinforced these inclinations. In the campaign, they fashioned him as the outsider candidate of
"hope" and "change" and have extended this strategy into the presidency itself. They see him as standing above party. In a
meeting with congressional leaders last April, senior adviser David Axelrod rejected the complaint that Obama accorded
equal blame to Democrats and Republicans with his descriptions of the "cynical politics in Washington." Within the White
House, top aides still speak of promoting the Obama "brand." Organizing for America, the administration's campaign
organization, which is supposed to be focusing on the 2010 elections, recently devoted its resources to organizing parties
across the country to celebrate Obama's forty-ninth birthday.
These efforts to elevate Obama above the hurly-burly of Washington politics have been disastrous. Obama's image as an
iconic outsider has become the screen on which Fox News, the Tea Party, radicalright bloggers, and assorted politicians
have projected the image of him as a foreigner, an Islamic radical, and a socialist. He has remained "the other" that he
aspired to be during the campaign, but he and his advisers no longer control how that otherness is defined.
The White House and cabinet officials he appointed have reinforced his aversion to populism. As Jonathan Alter recounts
in The Promise: President Obama, Year One, Geithner and Summers repeatedly blocked attempts to get tough on Wall
Street on the grounds that doing so would threaten the recovery itself by upsetting the bankers. For most of his first year,
Alter writes, "Obama bought the Geithner-Summers argument that the banks were fragile and couldn't be confronted
while they remained in peril." Its reluctance to come down on the bankers crippled the administration politically, making
it far more difficult for it to get its way with Congress on a second stimulus program that would have boosted the recovery
and Democrats' political prospects. Bad politics can trump good policy.
Populism has profound shortcomings as a worldview. It tends toward demagoguery. In its relentless focus on the middle
class, it can ignore or stigmatize those below it. It can prove hostile to a long-range scientific outlook. A more populist
Obama, for instance, might have postponed the battle for climate change legislation or national health insurance and
probably would have taken a weaker stand on immigration. But populism has been an indelible part of the American
political psyche, and those who are uncomfortable making populist appeals, like Hoover or Carter—or, more recently,
presidential candidate John Kerry—suffer the consequences at the polls.
If Obama's politics leads to a Republican takeover of one or both houses of Congress, and even to a Republican president
in 2012, then much of what Obama has accomplished could be undone. It's unlikely that a new Republican president and
Congress would actually repeal the health care or the financial reform bill. But the former could be starved of public funds
and deprived of regulatory oversight; and the latter could be neutered by a hostile treasury secretary and by weak or
hostile presidential appointees to the Securities and Exchange Commission or the new Consumer Financial Protection
Agency. Reform legislation needs administrations and congresses committed to reform. That is where politics has to come
in; and that's where the Obama administration, with its aversion to populism, has fallen short.
John B. Judis is a senior editor of The New Republic and a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace.
For more TNR, become a fan on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.
Source URL: http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/magazine/76972/obama-failure-polls-populism-recession-health-
care
---

sbwhoeop
Monday, August 23, 2010 10:22 AM
Re: H: Yes, there is a vast right wing conspiracy. Sid
Or I could send the endless pieces on Obama and his troubles or Haaretz on the new negotiations. I'll skip the torrent of
Obama pieces (see Politico lead piece today, if you want to catch the full updraft of new conventional wisdom), but include
Haaretz below from its editorial editor and Teddy Kollek's former spokesman:
• Home
• Print Edition
• News
• Published 01:58 23.08.10
• Latest update 01:58 23.08.10
ith a victory like this..
The direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians
have preconditions - dictated by Israel.
By At.tiye Elder: Tags: Israel news M:ddist East peace
Two years ago, a basketball tournament was held at Tel Aviv University with the participation of student teams from 14
cOuntries, including a Palestinian team from the occupied territories. The games were purportedly held "without
preconditions," and every team put its best players on the court and aimed to win.
But unsurprisingly, the Shin Ben security service permitted only seven Palestinian players, including bench players, to
enter Israel. Some of the key players on the team were compelled to stay at home. After several losses (by 30 to 40
points), when it was the Palestinians turn to face a team from one of the Israeli colleges, their coach announced that he
had decided to spare his players another humiliation, and requested that the game be canceled.
The illuminating movie "Friendship Games," to be shown tonight on the Yes Docu channel (directed by Ram Levy, along
with Ibtisam IVIara'ana, Duki Dror and Yoav Shamir), documents the tournament, which was the initiative of Ed Peskowitz,
an American Jew and co-owner of the Atlanta Hawks basketball team in the NBA. The camera follows the Israeli coach to
the Palestinian locker room. After a long while, he tells his players that in order to even out the teams, two of them will join
the other side. He tells two of the Israeli bench players, including one known as Fats(); to don the shirts of the Palestinian
team. The game ends with a decisive victory for the Israeli team and a strong sense of missed opportunity..
The direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, like the basketball game, have preconditions. Not the
conditions demanded by the Palestinians, but conditions dictated by Israel. The refusal to freeze Israeli building in East
Jerusalem is a precondition, just like the demand to freeze it. The refusal to resume negotiations from the point where
talks between the previous prime minister, Ehud Olmert, and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas left off after the
Annapolis conference is no less a precondition than the demand to resume talks from square one.
The head referee, the president of the United States, has twisted the arms of his colleagues in the Quartet and is dragging
Abbas to Washington. Barack °barna decided that the negotiations will be held without any commitment regarding
building in East Jerusalem, and will be opened without even a declaration of principles stating that the talks will be held on
the basis of a general formula, like peace and security for Israel and a state along the 1967 borders for the Palestinians.
It's time to jump into the fountain in Rabin Square and cheer: The Palestinians have been shafted!
If Benjamin Netanyahu's aim is to play around as much as possible with the ball, and sometimes kick the opponent, then
he can really chalk up another victory. But Israel's success in the negotiations, like the success of the student team in the
tournament, is not measured by the terms "victory" or "defeat." What is victory over a weak Palestinian team worth, if it
was won in friendly games that ended with virtually no interaction between the participants? What is a political process
with the Palestinians worth if it erodes Abbas' standing and leads nowhere?
What have we to gain from humiliating our partner before his constituency on the way to the negotiating table? If Israel's
approach on every one of the core issues is that winning is everything, there's no point in bothering so many VIPs with
another unnecessary summit. Let's assume that we'll succeed, with the help of the Jewish power around Obama, to twist
Abbas' arm some more and extract, for example, an agreement in which he concedes sovereignty over the Temple
Mount. How many hours would such an agreement last?
All we need is a few more "victories" like the invitation to the launch of direct negotiations, "without preconditions," and
we'll lose our last partners to a settlement that will prevent Israel from turning into an apartheid state or a Palestinian state
(the binational model is a nightmare, as far as I'm concerned).
What will we do if Abbas announces that he's had enough of losing in purportedly friendly games, and that he's decided
the time has come to step down? Will we declare another victory and invite Hamas leader Khaled Meshal and Iranian
president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to the party?
This story is lojr:
• kiva Eldar
Akiva Eldar is the chief political columnist and an editorial writer for Haaretz. His columns also appear regularly in the
Ha'aretz-Herald Tribune edition. In May 2006 The Financial Times selected him among the most prominent and influential
commentators in the world, "whose comments inspire callers from across the political spectrum".
Between 1993 and 1996, Eldar served as the Haaretz U.S. Bureau Chief and Washington correspondent, covering the
peace process, U.S.-Israel relations, American issues and Israel-Diaspora relations. Prior to this, Eldar spent 10 years as
the diplomatic correspondent for Haaretz, as well as its municipal correspondent for Jerusalem from 1978 to 1983. Before
joining Haaretz, Eldar was a reporter and editor for Israel Radio and spent two years as spokesperson for former Mayor of
Jerusalem, Teddy Kollek.
Eldar is the author of several books on Israel and the Middle East, including "The ambush on Jerusalem", which deals
with U.S.-Israel-Jewish community relations, and "Lords of the Land", an exploration of the Jewish settlements in the West
Bank. In 2007 he received the annual "Search for Common Ground" award for Middle East journalism.
Eldar was a special consultant to Abba Eban's PBS television documentaries on the history of Israel and the Oslo peace
initiative. He regularly appears on major television and radio networks in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Europe and Israel.
He appeared many times on news programs such as Nightline, The Lehrer Show, Charlie Rose Show, CNN News and
CBS Morning News, current affair programs on Israeli television, as well as NPR talk shows.
Eldar contributes to the op-ed pages of The New York Times, LA Times, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The International
Herald Tribune and The New York Jewish Week. During his stay in the U.S. Mr. Eldar lectured extensively for the Jewish
community and on campuses throughout the U.S., Canada and Australia. He has also participated in various Israeli-Arab-
European seminars.
Mr. Elder was born in Haifa, Israel in 1945. He is a graduate of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where he majored in
Economics, Political Science and Psychology.
---

No because we have not gotten comments back yet, unless you want to wait to see another version tomorrow.
Sent from my iPhone. Apologies for any typos.
On Aug 23, 2010, at 9:30 AM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
> Should I wait for your next draft then?
>
---

Mario and alonzo both say earlier the better. They think 2pm is ok but they wouldn't go any later than that.
Let's see if the shuttles this am are affected cause of weather. So we can reassess in an hour or 2.
---

H: This may be worthless meandering on my part, but if the US unveils its own position in the new negotiations, inevitable
if they are not to collapse, perhaps that position should incorporate at its heart what the Israeli government has already
agreed to in the final status negotiations at Camp David, along, of course, with certain adjustments and amendments to
account for the past ten years in terms of boundaries, etc. This puts the burden on Bibi to repudiate Barak in principles
and details if he pushes back, splitting his coalition, and appearing to be the rejectionist. Also it makes the US seems
utterly reasonable, for the Israelis have already agreed to the core of these positions and arguments cannot be made that
they would undermine security, etc. Furthermore, three-quarters at least of US Jews supported the Camp David peace
effort. S
---

I am traveling overseas and only have sporadic access to my email. If you need immediate assistance, please call State
Department Operations at 202-647-1512 and ask for Joanne Lasczcych who can assist you.
cdm
---

Great. Thx.
Sent from my iPhone. Apologies for any typos.
On Aug 23, 2010, at 10:27 AM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
> I will call you later to discuss.
>
---

Call participants:
Counselor Cheryl Mills
Senator George Mitchell
Mr. Dennis Ross
Mr. Dan Shapiro
Assistant Secretary Jeff Feltman
Deputy Assistant Secretary Jake Wailes
Deputy Special Envoy David Hale
Ms. Huma Abedin
---

Don't operate from blank slate or allow Bibi to set the terms. There are already terms.
---

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence 'En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:30 am MEETING w/ERIC GOOSBY
10:00 am Secretary's Office
10:15 am PHOTOS
10:30 am Secretary's Office *Jared Cohen, Paul Narain (wife:
Julianna Bentes)
10:30 am OFFICE TIME
11:30 pm Secretary's Office
Yale Alumni (Jake,
11:30 am PHONE CALL w/ KENYAN PM RAILA ODINGA
11:40 am Secretary's Office
12:00 pm PHONE CALL w/COLOMBIAN FM MARIA ANGELA HOLGUIN
12:10 pm Secretary's Office
12:15 pm UNGA MEETING
12:45pm Secretary's Outer Office
12:45 pm OFFICE TIME
1:20pm Secretary's Office
1:20 pm (t) DEPART State Department *En route Washington National Airport
1:40 pm (t) ARRIVE Washington National Airport
2:00 pm (t) DEPART Washington National Airport via US Airways Shuttle #2174
En route New York, NY
3:25 pm (t) ARRIVE New York, LaGuardia Airport
3:35 pm (t) DEPART LaGuardia Airport *En route Private Residence
4:25 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
###
---

Received. However, I did not get the one you sent to my state e-mail earlier. There must be some problem with the
State e-mail filters. I will be monitoring this e-mail closely.
>
---

We haven't heard yet that it will. But we are both monitoring.
---


---


---


---

sbwhoeop(
Friday, August 13, 2010 4:31 PM
continuing...
H: When Madeleine first became Secretary of State, I organized a group of people for her to discuss the anniversary of
the Marshall Plan to prepare her for her speech. Some were younger, but most were like etc.
We had a long dinner. It was, I think, fruitful for her. (I recall Greg Craig there, then as head of Policy Planning.) There are
a lot of people not in government who have expertise and judgment that are not being tapped, some of them oun er.
There are of course a number of people who have not been tapped into the administration and wish to be.
for example, is someone I've talked with recently, who very much wants to serve as an ambassador or in
some capacity.) , whom I mentioned, and whose CV I've included
below, is someone who is very knowledgeable, tough minded, has ideas, and is capable, in his 40s. He's the kind of
person who might be considered to succeed Anne-Marie Slaughter. There are others out there: for
example, who you may remember s incredibly
effective, but has been kept out of this administration because as a lawyer he's had to register as a lobbyist. He's one of
many. Really counter-productive to develop such self-undermining rules.
thinks hard about diplomacy, and we've been in conversation about how to develop these ideas
further. I he younger generation is interesting, is worth paying attention to, among them. More to discuss. Sid
/
---


---


---

of Rage
1:1
Days of Rage -- The
Noxious
Transformation of
the Conservative
Movement into a
Rabid Fringe
By Max Blumenthal, Nation Books
Posted on August 10, 2010, Printed on
August 17, 2010
http://www.alternet.orgistory/147784/
Editor's Note: The following is
the new epilogue from Max
Blumenthal's book, Republic
Gomorrah, now out in paperback
(Basic/Nation Books, 2009).
"He will tell you
that he wants a
strong authority to
take from him the
crushing
responsibility of
thinking for
himself Since the
Republic is weak,
he is led to break
the law out of love
for obedience. But
is it really strong
authority that he
wishes? In reality
he demands
rigorous order for
others, and for
himself disorder
without
responsibility." --
Jean-Paul Sartre,
"Anti-Semite and
Jew"
I am not sure when I first detected
the noxious fumes that would
envelop the conservative
movement in the Obama era. It
might have been early on, in
April 2009, when I visited a
series of gun shows in rural
California and Nevada. Perusing
tables piled high with high-
caliber semi-automatic weapons
and chatting with anyone in my
vicinity, I heard urgent warnings
of mass roundups, concentration
camps, and a socialist
government in Washington.
"These people that are purchasing
these guns are people that are
worried about what's going on in
this country," a gun dealer told
me outside a show in Reno.
"Good luck Obama," a young gun
enthusiast remarked to me. "We
outnumber him 100 to 1." At this
time, the Tea Party movement
had not even registered on the
national media's radar.
In September 2009, I led a panel
discussion about this book inside
an auditorium filled with nearly
100 students and faculty at the
University of California-
Riverside. Beside me sat Jonathan
Walton, an African-American
professor of religious studies and
prolific writer, and Mark Takano,
an erudite, openly gay former
Democratic congressional
candidate and local community
college trustee. In the middle of
our discussion, a dozen College
Republicans stormed the front of
the stage with signs denouncing
me as a "left-wing hack" while a
hysterical young man leaped from
the crowd, blowing kisses
mockingly at Takano while
heckling Walton as a "racist."
Afterward, university police
officers insisted on escorting me
to my ride after the right-wing
heckler attempted to follow me as
he shouted threats.
Who was this stalker? Just a
concerned citizen worried about
taxes? His name was Ryan Sorba
and he was an operative of a
heavily funded national
conservative youth outfit, the
Intercollegiate Studies Institute.
Besides founding dozens of
Republican youth groups across
the country, Sorba has devoted an
exceptional amount of energy to
his interest in homosexuals. His
intellectual output consists of a
tract titled The Born Gay Hoax,
arguing that homosexuality is at
once a curable disease and a
bogus trend manufactured by
academic leftists. Adding to his
credentials, Sorba has a history of
run-ins with the law, he explained
when I called him about the
order.
My encounter with this
aggressive right-wing cadre
seemed a strange, isolated event.
But the hostility turned out to be
symptomatic of the intensifying
campaign to delegitimize
President Obama and his allies in
Congress. The Right's days of
rage were only beginning.
Through his first year in office,
Obama seemed oblivious to the
threat of the far right. He
campaigned against partisanship,
declaring that there were "no red
states" and no "conservative
America." Apparently, he thought
it was merely a contrivance or
myth that there were people who
rejected science, demonized gays,
assailed minority and women's
rights -- or that they genuinely
believed in what they said.
Speaking of changing
Washington, Obama seemed to
think that the entire history of
politics since the rise of Reagan
and the Right and their strategies
of polarization was not deeply
rooted but a superficial problem
attributable to certain "divisive"
personalities, easily wiped away
with gestures toward
bipartisanship. His view of the
parties was that they were simply
mirror images sharing
fundamental beliefs but separated
by "partisans." The skilled and
devoted community organizer
could bring them together.
Many of his supporters in the
media, often part and parcel of
political wars over the years,
reinforced and amplified his
innocence, proclaiming he was
the one at last who could "bridge•
the partisan divide." Andrew
Sullivan, a disaffected
conservative who once called
critics of George W. Bush
policies "fifth columnists" but
now fervently supporting Obama,
wrote that the new president was
destined to become "a liberal
Reagan who can reunite
America." This optimism
pervaded the Obama White
House as the president and his
aides sought out Republicans
willing to vote for his programs.
After all, why couldn't we all just
get along?
In his autobiographical book The
Audacity of Hope, Obama
highlighted a key component of
his political strategy: "I serve as a
blank screen on which people of
vastly different political stripes
project their own views." Once he
was elected, conservatives
concluded that they could reverse
Obama's strength by transforming
him into a human tableau for the
most fearsome images they could
conjure.
Obama's multiracial background
was crucial in cultivating
resentment among the shock
troops. Those who rejected
Obama's legitimacy to serve as
president on the basis of his
background gave birth to the
"Birther" movement that sought
to challenge his citizenship. The
movement's most visible figure,
and therefore the most eccentric,
was Orly Taitz, a dentist and self-
trained lawyer who had
immigrated from the former
Soviet republican of Moldova to
Israel before settling in the
conservative bastion of Orange
County, California. Convinced by
claims on the far-right Web site
WorldNetDaily that Obama
planned to create a "civilian
national security force," Taitz
told me she "realized that Obama
was another Stalin--it's a cross
between Stalinist USSR and
Hitler's Germany."
After becoming transfixed by
online conspiracy theories
claiming Obama's family had
forged his birth certificate in
Hawaii, Taitz snapped into
action. She filed a lawsuit in
November 2008 with California
Secretary of State Debra Bowen
demanding an investigation into
Obama's eligibility to serve as
president. Taitz's plaintiff in the
case was Wiley Drake, an Orange
County radio preacher and former
second vice president of the
Southern Baptist Convention who
once publicly prayed for Obama's
death. While her lawsuit went
nowhere, and subsequent suits
earned her angry rebukes from
judges, Taitz became an instant
media sensation, delivering
heavily accented screeds against
Obama before friendly
interviewers from Sean Haimity
to CNN's Lou Dobbs, who Taitz
called her "greatest supporter"
and who was eventually fired as
an indirect result of his hosting of
her.
In March 2009, Texas Rep.
Randy Neugebauer signed on to a
Birther bill proposing that future
presidential candidates must
prove their citizenship before
becoming eligible to campaign.
The Birther movement had found
its voice in goverment and made
an indelible impact on the
Republican grassroots. By June
2009, 28 percent of Republican
respondents to a Kos/Research
2000 poll said they thought
Obama wasn't born in the United
States, while 30 percent "weren't
sure." "Obama should be in the
Big House," Taitz shrieked to me,
"not the White House!"
When Obama announced health
care reform as the first major
initiative of his administration,
the conservative movement
activated a campaign of
demonization -- transformational
politics -- designed to turn Obama
into the "Other," making him
seem as unfamiliar, and therefore
as threatening, as possible. When
the president urged the Congress
to deliver a health care reform bill
in 2009, the Right staged a living
theater of political hatred,
Obama's dream of bipartisanship
transformed into a nightmarish
version of "Marat/Sade." On
September 12, 2009, tens of
thousands of far-right activists
belonging to a loose
confederation of anti-government
groups called the Tea Party
Patriots converged on
Washington's National Mall for a
giant protest against the Obama
health care plan. The date was
significant: Fox News's top-
ranked talk show host Glenn
Beck had declared the birth of the
"9-12 Project" to restore the sense
of unity -- and siege mentality --
that Americans experienced on
September 11, 2001. But this
time, Obama -- not Osama -- was
the enemy.
While covering the rally, I
witnessed sign after sign
declaring Obama a greater danger
to America's security than al-
Qaida; demonstrators held images
that juxtaposed Obama's face
with images of evildoers from
Hitler to Pol Pot to Bin Laden;
others carried signs questioning
Obama's status as a U.S. citizen.
"We can fight al-Qaida, we can't
kill Obama," said an aging
demonstrator. Another told me,
"Obama is the biggest Nazi in the
world," pointing to placards he
had fashioned depicting Obama
and House Majority Leader
Nancy Pelosi in SS outfits.
According to another activist,
Obama's agenda was similar to
Hitler's: "Hitler took over the
banking industry, did he not? And
Hitler had his own personal secret
service police. [The community-
organizing group] ACORN is an
extension of that."
The seemingly incongruous Tea
Party propaganda recalled signs
waved by right-wing Jewish
settlers during rallies against
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin and his support of the
peace process, portraying him as
an SS officer and as the French
collaborator Marshall Petain. In
1995, amid the provocative
atmosphere, a young right-wing
Jewish zealot assassinated Rabin.
The Israeli tragedy was a
cautionary example of targeted
hatred leading to violence.
Members of the Tea Party
"Patriots" did not seem to care
that their rhetoric was irrational,
or that comparing Obama to
Hitler and Stalin was
contradictory and obviously
hyperbolic. Their motives were
entirely negative. By purging
government of the multicultural
evil that had seized power
through illicit means (several
activists told me they believed
ACORN helped Obama steal the
election), they were convinced
that a mythical golden American
yesteryear would return. They
had no interest in building
anything new or even articulating
an agenda, much less discussing
the merits of policies. The Tea
Party's primary concern was
cultural purification -- freedom
from, not freedom to. Against the
dark image of the president and
his liberal allies, Tea Party
activists defined themselves as
the children of light. The racial
subtext was always transparent.
The Tea Party's strategy rested on
a guerrilla campaign of chaos and
sabotage designed not only to
intimidate Democrats but also to
disorient independent voters who
might have supported health care
reform. The Tea Partiers were
convinced this would be an easy
feat, since they believed the
majority of the country was on
their side -- that they represented
the "Real America." At the 9-12
rally Matt Kibbe, one of the
march organizers, told the crowd
that ABC News was reporting
that 1 million to 1.5 million
people were in attendance,
something ABC denied, saying
"ABCNews.com reported an
approximate figure of 60,000 to
70,000 protesters." Then Armey
led the crowd in a chant of
"Freedom works! Freedom
works!" Unknown to most of the
Tea Partiers, they were intoning
the name of a corporate-funded
Beltway advocacy group, not the
battle cry of Mel Gibson William
Wallace in Braveheart.
Contrary to its image as a
grassroots movement mobilized
to stifle the machinations of
Washington elites, the Tea Party
movement was the creation of a
constellation of industry-funded
conservative groups with close
Republican ties. The movement's
leading puppet-master was Dick
Armey, who directed resources
and talking points to the Tea
Party "Patriots" from his
Washington, D.C.-based
advocacy group, FreedomWorks.
Among the corporate clients of
Armey's lobbying firm, which he
was forced to leave as a result of
his involvement in the Tea
Parties, was the pharmaceutical
giant Bristol Myers Squibb, a
company with a clear interest in
defeating health care reform.
(Armey's other "real American"
clients included the Marxist terror
cult, People's Mojahedin of Iran,
which received funding and
assistance from Saddam Hussein
in order to launch terrorist strikes
throughout the 1990's against
Iranian civilian targets.) Armey
collected a consulting fee of
$250,000 directly from
FreedomWorks and $300,000
from allied astroturf front groups.
FreedomWorks paid out much of
its money to an assortment of
Republican political consultants.
If Armey was the Tea Party king,
Sarah PalM was eager to be
crowned the Tea Party queen.
Just days after Obama's
inauguration, Palin abruptly quit
her job as Alaskan governor to
vie for the honor. PalM's motives
for quitting became clear when
she inked a lucrative deal to write
her political memoir Going
Rogue, signed on as a regular
contributor to Fox News, and
received $1 million an episode for
a reality show on cable television,
"Sarah Palin's Alaska." PalM's
book tour, which sent her through
Middle America in a luxuriously
outfitted bus, resembled both a
presidential campaign and a
traveling carnival.
Whether or not PalM intends to
run for president, her growing
media presence has magnified her
influence within the Republican
Party. Yet the ever-expanding
Palin phenomenon was greeted
with hostility by Republican
politicos desperately seeking to
expand the party's base after the
drubbing in 2008. Former
McCain campaign manager Steve
Schmidt warned that Palin's
nomination in 2012 would be
"catastrophic" for the GOP. His
doomsday prediction was backed
by an October Gallup poll
revealing her as one of the most
polarizing and unpopular political
figures in the country with a
disapproval rating of over 50
percent. Unfortunately for
Schmidt and other party
pragmatists, those who approve
of Palin represent the heartbeat of
the Republican Party, its most
fervent activists, and cannot be
dissuaded from following her,
even if she is leading the party off
a cliff.
A November 2009 special
congressional election in New
York's heavily Republican 23rd
district was the first major test of
Palin's power. Along with a
parade of nationally recognized
conservatives, Palin endorsed
Doug Hoffman, an unknown far-
right third-party candidate closely
allied with the Tea Party, helping
to force a popular moderate
Republican politician, Dede
Scozzafava, from the race. In the
end, Palin's ideological purge in
upstate New York led to an
improbable Democratic victory,
the first in that district in more
than 100 years. After the disaster
Palin and her allies claimed
victory, insisting they had at least
hastened the purge of
ideologically impure Republicans
from the party. She went on to
endorse Rand Paul, the son of
right-wing libertarian Rep. Ron
Paul and a candidate in
Kentucky's GOP senatorial
primary, while Dick Cheney went
out of his way to endorse Rand's
regular Republican opponent,
Trey Grayson, the Kentucky
secretary of state.
Following the Tea Party script of
avoiding social issues like
abortion and gay marriage in
order to obscure the large
presence of the Christian Right
within the movement's ranks, the
self-described "hardcore pro-
lifer" Palin recast herself as a
libertarian concerned primarily
with issues of "economic
freedom." She claimed the
Democratic "cap and trade" plan
to limit carbon emissions would
harm the livelihood of blue-collar
workers, and she assailed health
care reform as a Trojan Horse for
"socialism" (though she admitted
her family "used to hustle over
the border" to take advantage of
Canada's single-payer health care
system). But no Palin attack had
as much effect as the one she
blasted out on her Facebook page
claiming the Obama health care
plan included a provision for
"death panels" that would
recommend euthanasia for
severely ill patients like her
Down syndrome-afflicted son,
Trig. With the click of a button,
Palin transformed the tone of the
health care debate from rancorous
to poisonous.
The source of Palin's "death
panels" smear was a practiced
propagandist, former New York
Lieutenant Governor Betsy
McCaughey. When President Bill
Clinton introduced health care
reform during his first term,
McCaughey falsely claimed in an
article published in the New
Republic and widely circulated by
Republicans, that the plan would
force consumers to drop their
private plans and buy into the
government's program (the article
would go on to win a National
Magazine Award and then be
retracted years later by the New
Republic's editors). Now she was
back in the spotlight, pushing a
rumor that would be voted by the
non-partisan fact-checking Web
site Politifact.com as "the lie of
2009." McCaughey's latest
innuendo was boosted by the cult
of political crank Lyndon
LaRouche, which mobilized to
push the rumor into the
mainstream.
In June 2009, one of LaRouche's
top lieutenants publicly
confronted Ezekiel Emanuel, the
National Institute of Health's
chief bioethicist and brother of
White House chief of staff Rahm
Emanuel, accusing him of
seeking to reintroduce Hitler's T-
4 program to kill the handicapped
through health care reform.
"President Obama has put in
place a reform apparatus reviving
the euthanasia of Hitler Germany
in 1939, that began the genocide
there," LaRouche staffer Anton
Chaitkin charged. Soon,
LaRouche's followers were on
street corners around the country
with posters depicting Obama
with a Hitler moustache. At a
town hall forum on health care
reform hosted by Democratic
Rep. Barney Frank, a LaRouche
follower waved one of the
Obama-as-Hitler posters and
demanded, "Why do you continue
to support a Nazi policy, as
Obama has expressly supported
this policy?"
Two months later, after Palin
whispered the rumor on
Facebook, prominent
conservatives from former
Speaker of the House Newt
Gingrich to ranking Senate
Finance Committee member
Charles Grassley parroted her
claims before audiences of
indignant Tea Partiers. Not to be
outdone, Glenn Beck devoted an
extended rant on his show to the
reality of death panels. Echoing
the LaRouche cultists, Beck
accused Ezekiel Emanuel of "the
devaluing of human life, putting a
price on each individual." He
thundered, "The death panel is
not a firing squad. Rationing is
inevitable and they know it!"
The death panel rumor served a
variety of functions, all useful to
the movement, but not necessarily
to the Republican Party. Most
importantly, the rumor resonated
both with hard-core libertarians
who resented the very existence
of the federal government and
Christian Right activists who
viewed the legalization of
abortion as a slippery slope to
government-sponsored
euthanasia. The hysteria it
engendered helped repair the rift
exposed by the Terri Schiavo
charade in 2005, when the
evangelical conservative James
Dobson publicly clashed with
Armey, the libertarian leader,
over the right of the government
to interfere in a private family
matter of life and death.
The slurring of Obama as a sort
of sleeper agent crypto-Muslim
helped bring the neoconservatives
back into the fray. The new neo-
con generation was led by Dick
Cheney's daughter, Liz, who
founded an anti-Obama advocacy
group, Keep America Safe, by
leveraging donations from pro-
Israel sources. Asked by CNN's
Larry King about the Birther
movement that was challenging
Obama's status as an American
citizen, Liz Cheney remarked,
"One of the reasons you see
people so concerned about this is
people are uncomfortable with
having for the first time ever, I
think, a president who seems so
reluctant to defend the nation
overseas." With the libertarians,
Christian Right, and the neo-cons
seated around the same table,
united in resentment of the alien
president, the conservative
movement was whole again.
The experiments in "Terror
Management Theory" of Sheldon
Solomon, professor of
psychology at Skidmore College,
Jeff Greenberg, professor of
psychologist at the Unviersity of
Arizona, and Tom Pyszczynski,
professor of psychology at the
University of Colorado, have
demonstrated the connection
between fear of death and
intensification of conservative
attitudes. The findings help
explain the effectiveness of the
death panel rumor and
insinuations by conservative
figures that Obama was not truly
American and somehow
sympathetic to Islamic terrorists.
Indeed, these seemingly irrational
smears were guided by tactical
reasoning, calculated to agitate
voters with constant reminders of
their own mortality. Whether or
not Independents responded, the
rhetoric of death kept the Tea
Party crowd in a persistent state
of panic and rage, ensuring a
standing army ready to fan out to
rallies and town halls at the first
sign of liberal malfeasance.
Obama's first year in office was
marked by more than raucous
protests; there were several
disturbing murders committed by
far-right extremists. In April
2009, a 22-year-old neo-Nazi
wannabe named Richard
Poplawsi mowed down a SWAT
team of Pittsburgh cops, killing
three. Poplawski's best friend told
reporters the young killer "grew
angry recently over fears Obama
would outlaw guns." Later it was
discovered that Poplawski had
posted a video clip to a neo-Nazi
Web site portraying Fox's Glenn
Beck contemplating the existence
of concentration camps. (After a
characteristically thorough
investigation, Beck conceded
they were not real.) On another
occasion, the killer posted a video
promoting Tea Party rallies. A
month after the Pittsburgh
bloodbath, Scott Roeder, a
supporter of the militant anti-
abortion group Operation Rescue,
shot Dr. George Tiller to death
while he prayed at his church in
Wichita, Kansas. Tiller was
declared fair game by the anti-
abortion movement because of
his role as Kansas's only late-term
abortion provider. During at least
28 episodes of Bill O'Reilly's
"O'Reilly Factor," O'Reilly had
referred to Tiller as "Tiller the
baby killer," a criminal guilty of
"Nazi stuff." "I wouldn't want to
be [Tiller] if there is a Judgment
Day," O'Reilly proclaimed.
In August 2009, a middle-aged
professional named George
Sodini walked into a health club
in suburban Pittsburgh and
gunned down three women. The
mainstream press explained
Sodini's motives away by homing
in on passages in his online
diaries describing his loneliness,
inability to convince women to
have sex with him, and descent
into chronic masturbation. Nearly
every major media outlet omitted
or ignored a long deranged entry
in which Sodini projected his
sexual frustration onto Obama,
whom he seemed to view as a
symbol of black male virility and
predation.
The day after Obama's election
victory, Sodini wrote: "Good luck
to Obama! He will be successful.
The liberal media LOVES him.
Amerika has chosen The Black
Man. Good! In light of this I got
ideas outside of Obama's plans
for the economy and such. Here it
is: Every black man should get a
young white girl ... Kinda a
reverse indentured servitude
thing. Every daddy know when
he sends his little girl to college,
she be ... real good. I saw it. 'Not
my little girl', daddy says! (Yeah
right!!) Black dudes have thier
[sic] choice of best white??
[ellipses in original]."
In another posting to an anti-
Clinton forum in 1994, during the
height of the Republicans'
Whitewater investigation, Sodini
revealed that he had purchased a
bumper sticker reading, "Stop
Socialism, Impeach Clinton,"
from a National Review ad. A
year later, Sodini ranted on an
anti-government militia site, "I
am convinced that more drastic
action is required to bring the
country back to the Constitutional
order that it was 200 years ago. I
don't think any group of political
leaders will achieve this for us."
Whether or not Sodini's murder
spree was motivated by his
political passions, he was
pathologically death-driven and
fixated on the phantasmagoria of
right-wing imagery. In his final
diary entry, Sodini proclaimed,
"Death lives!"
More than any other media figure
of the Obama era, Glenn Beck
encouraged the campaign of
racial demonization and
conspiracy that consumed the Tea
Party "Patriots." During a
broadcast of "Fox and Friends,"
Beck opined that Obama "has
exposed himself over and over
and over again as a guy who has a
deep-seated hatred for white
people, or the white culture." As
evidence, Beck pointed to White
House green-jobs czar Van Jones,
an African American former
community organizer who was
eventually forced to resign as a
direct result of Beck's crusade.
From there, Beck targeted another
black Obama adviser, Valerie
Jarrett, highlighting her ties to
ACORN while upholding her and
Jones as evidence of Obama's
"socialist" agenda. In another
broadcast, Beck played an audio
clip of unidentified African
Americans referring to "Obama
money" as they collected welfare
checks in Detroit. Then he
showed footage of members of a
Kansas City-based youth group
practicing a step show, a
traditional African-American
group dance apparently
unfamiliar enough to Beck and
his transfixed audience that he
felt at liberty to claim the footage
as evidence that "Obama's SS"
was being trained across inner-
city America.
In September 2009, Beck
relentlessly targeted ACORN, the
Right's new favorite hobgoblin,
admitting that he intended to use
the poor people's advocacy group
to distract his viewers from the
health care debate. "Trust me,"
Beck said, "Everybody now says
they're going to be talking about
health care. I don't think so." (His
statement was reminiscent of
Rush Limbaugh's scandal-
mongering remark during the
early Clinton administration:
"Whitewater is about health
care.") Beck promptly cued up a
series of hidden camera videos
shot by conservative youth
activists James O'Keefe and
Hannah Giles inside ACORN
field offices. In the videos,
O'Keefe baited African-American
staffers into making statements
explaining that Giles, who
claimed she was a prostitute,
could obtain low-income housing.
O'Keefe edited in images of
himself clad in an outlandish
pimp costume to create the
impression that he was dressed
that way during the meetings with
ACORN; however, Giles later
admitted her partner had lied
about wearing his costume to
farther ineriminate ACORN. In
the end. ACORN was exonerated
of all criminal wrongdoing while
in a separate incident O'Keefe
was arrested and charged with a
federal crime after he and several
conservative pals disguised
themselves as telephone
repairmen and attempted to
wiretap phone lines in the office
of Senator Mary 'Landrieu of
Louisiana. Like Ryan Sorba,
O'Keefe and his posse were
movement cadres paid and
directed by well-funded
conservative outfits; O'Keefe had
been trained by the Leadership
Institute, the right-wing youth
Froup that nurtured leadinG, lights
like Jack Abriunoff, Karl Rove,
Ralph Reed, and Jeff Gannon.
While O'Keefe and his buddies
plea-bargained with prosecutors,
Beck basked in his formula for
success. His show earned the
hithest ratings at Fox News,
topping network franchises like
O'Reilly and Sean Hannity. In the
process. Beck's opinions became
firmly implanted in the nervous
systems of Tea Party activists.
"Glenn Beck has taught us
everything we know," a
demonstrator at the 9-12 rally told
Me. "He's opened our eyes to so
much."
But unlike the right-wing radio
warhorses who helped usher in
Newt Gin<trich's Republican
counter-revolution of 1994, Beck
was not an authentic product of
the movement. When Rush
Limbaugh first began dominating
the AM airwaves, Beck was
mired in the world of mid-level
commercial radio, delivering
corny yarns about lesbians and
celebrity trash in hopes of
becoming the next Howard Stem.
By night, as he has tirelessly
recounted, he medicated his
anxiety with cocaine and alcohol,
destroying his first marriage in
the process. "We remember
Glenn from the womanizing, the
drinking, the drugs. Everybody
who knew him at the time saw
what a: complete mess he was," a
shock jock from Tampa, Florida,
who called himself Bubba the
Love Sponge remarked to me
during a broadcast of his
nationally syndicated show.
Like Dusty Rhodes, the pseudo-
populist demagogue of Elia
Kazan's 1957 film, A Face in the
Crowd. Beck was a self-
destructive drifter Who might
have been crumpled up with a
bottle of Mad Dog 20/20 in an
alleyway or been locked away in
,a prison cell had fame not found
him first. Beck was only able to
stabilize his life when he made
his escape from freedom.,
marrying a conservative Mormon,
converting to her religion, and
transmuting his urge to abuse
drugs into conservative radio
diatribes. When Beck first broke
into television On CNN's
Headline News Channel, he
struggled to articulate a coherent
political world view. If he
distinguished himself from other
big-time conservative .hosts in
any way, he did so through
strained and often snide attempts
at humor, remnants of his failed
radio career. Nevertheless, with
help from his liberal agent,
Matthew Hiltzik, Beck snagged a
primetime slot at Fox News in
early 2009. Around this same
time, Beck began promoting the
work of an arcane Mormon
conspiracy-peddler named W.
Clean Skousen, whom he
described as his political lodestar.
Suddenly, Beck had something
more to offer than irritable mental
gestures.
Thanks to Beck's designation of
Skousen's pseudohistorical tract
The 5000 Year Leap as "required
reading" on the Web site of his 9-
12 Project, and his promotion of
the book on his show, the
previously obscure Skousen.
became the Hidden imam of the
Tea Party movement. By the
summer of 2009, Skousen's Leap
was among the top 10 books on
Amazon.com and a fixture on
literature tables at Tea Party
gatherings. It went from selling a
puny couple of thousand copies in
2007 to selling over 200,000
copies in 2009. Just why the book
generated such an instant appeal
is difficult to understand. It is
little more than a slapdash of
quotes from the Founding
Fathers, often taken out of
context and deliberately
oversimplified, to explain why
America is the greatest nation in
history. in the process, Skousen
claims that church and state
separation is un-American, that
"coercive taxation" is communist,
and that marriage is the
underpinning of a free society.
Benjamin Franklin., who wrote at
length on the merits of "amours"
with "old women," and who
famously solicited prostitutes and
fathered a son of out of wedlock,
was the ultimate authority
Skousen quoted on the
importance of marriage.
Though Skousen claims the
Founders as the world's foremost
source of eternal wisdom, he
buttressed his points with fringe
sources like the conspiracist
Norman Dodd's screeds about the
Illuminati. According. to Skousen,
Dodd claimed that "powerful
influences congregating in the
United States" like the
Rockefellers and the Rothschilds
had forced the United States into
World War I. Skousen published
Dodd's manifestoes in his obscure
journal Freemen's Digest, which
he founded for the express
purpose of propagating
conspiracies.
Skousen's paranoid politics were
an outgrowth of his participation.
in extreme anti-communist
groups during the 1950s. He
boasted of a close friendship with
then-FBI director J. Edgar
Hoover and said he provided him
with research on communist
plots, claims disputed by FBI
historians. (During a recent
interview. Skousen's son, Paul,
told me that contrary to rumors of
Hoover's cross-dressing and
homosexual dalliances, he would
set the top cop up on blind dates
with live women.) Skousen was
fired from his job as Salt Lake
City's police chief for, in the
words of the city's conservative
Mormon mayor, "conduct[ing]
hi.s office as chief of police in
exactly the same manner in which
the communists operate their
government." From there,
Skousen sailed off to the far
shores of the Right-peddling
conspiracy tracts like The Naked
Communist-, and earning
condemnation from his beloved
FBI, which accused him in an
internal memo of "promoting
[his] own anti-communism for
obvious financial purposes."
Skousen's vocal support for the
far-right John Birch Society's
claim that communists controlled
President Dwight Eisenhower
cost him the support of the
corporate backers who had paid
for his Red-bashing lecture tours.
He went off the radar for several
years, returning during the late
1960s to accuse the Jewish
Rothschild family of secretly
bankrolling everyone from Ho
Chi Minh to the civil rights.
movement. By the late 1970s,
even the Church of Latter Day
Saints distanced itself from
Skousen and his conspiracy
theories. His work fell through
the margins and might have
disappeared entirely had Beck not
revived it, turning The 5000 Year
Leap into the bible of the Tea
Party movement. Journalist
Alexander Zaitchik observed in
his authoritative profile of
Skousen on Salon.com that
Skousen's renewed influence
through Beck and the Tea Party
'suggests that the modern base of
the Republican Party is headed to
a very strange place."
Besides influencing Beck,
Skousen's teachings inspired one
of the Tea Party movement's most
visible grassroots celebrities,
retired Sheriff Richard Mack. I
met Mack in February at a far-
right rally just outside of
Montgomery, Alabama. On a
makeshift stage towed into the
middle of a rodeo arena by a
pickup truck, Mack recalled with
reverence his mentorship by
Skousen, who he said taught him
everything he needed to know
about the Constitution. Mack
urged his spellbound audience to
stockpile ammo and store food.
"If you control the food supply,"
Mack warned, "you control the
people. And that's the first step to
slavery."
Already a hero to conservatives
for successfully suing the Clinton
administration over the provision
in the Brady Handgun Violence
Prevention Act requiring law
enforcement to conduct criminal
background checks of gun
purchasers, Mack reemerged in
the Obama era as the archetypal
local lawman who vowed to resist
the tyrannical federal
government. Along with a few
dozen former and active military
and law enforcement personnel,
Mack helped form a self-styled
Tea Party militia called the
Oathkeepers. Galvanized by their
fear of creeping socialism, the
Oathkeepers solemnly swore to
refuse tyrannical federal orders
such as cooperating with foreign
troops and forcing Americans
into concentration camps.
Because the group's members
trained for combat, the vow came
with suggestion of armed
resistance.
Besides Mack, the Oathkeepers
attracted a coterie of militia
movement retreads into its ranks.
The most well-established figure
was Mike Vanderboegh, a
longtime militia fanatic who
published a booklet in the mid-
1990s entitled Strategy and
Tactics for a Militia Civil War,
calling for sniper attacks on "war
criminals, secret policemen, rats."
With Obama in office,
Vandeboegh churned out anti-
government screeds on right-wing
blogs with renewed passion and
supported his efforts by cashing
in the $1,300 in federal disability
compensation he received each
month.
For all the energy the far right
exerted in its campaign to
strangle Obama's agenda, it was a
Democrat who posed the greatest
threat to the passage of health
care reform. Representative Bart
Stupak of Michigan had been in
office since 1993, placing him
among the senior leadership of
the so-called centrist Blue Dog
Democrats. When health care
reform was introduced in
Congress, Stupak became the
leader of an informal caucus of
anti-abortion Democrats, making
him the de facto swing vote on
the House version of the bill. By
extension, Stupak was the point
man in the campaign to ensure
that the bill would not allow
federal funding for abortion for
low-income women.
But after close consultation with
leaders of the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops, Stupak went a
step further. He introduced a
draconian amendment to block
women from paying for abortions
from even their own private
insurance plans. The amendment,
which passed the House but was
shut down in the Senate, became
a key sticking point in health care
negotiations. 'He's a big hero
now in the pro-life community,"
former Bush Catholic issues
adviser Deal Hudson told me in
November 2009. "Thanks to him,
this is the first time I can
remember the pro-life Democrats
having any power."
To the chagrin of the
Republicans, Stupak entertained
offers of compromise from the
Democratic leadership.
According to Hudson, the
Catholic Bishops were keen to
see health care reform pass, but
only if the bill contained a clear
provision forbidding patients
from spending federal money on
abortion. Finally, in March, after
pressure from House Majority
Leader Nancy Pelosi, Obam.a
agreed to sign an executive order
forbidding the federal funding of
abortion. Stupak had been
mollified. Now he and his anti-
abortion caucus pledged to
deliver the swing votes the
Democrats needed to pass the
bill. As soon as reports seeped out
declaring the imminent passage
of health care reform, major
right-wing blogs like
RedState.org churned out virulent
denunciations of Stupak, calling
him a traitor and sellout. The blog
comment sections filled up with
dozens of diatribes referring to
Stupak in language previously
reserved for Dr. George Tiller:
"Bart the Baby-Killer."
On March 20, thousands of Tea
Party activists surrounded the
Capitol's Longworth Building in
expectation of Obama's pep talk
to the House Democrats and the
health care vote. Democratic
Representative john Lewis, a
hero of the civil rights movement,
and Representative Barney Frank,
the first openly gay member of
Congress, passed through the
crowd on their way inside the
Capitol. Thsligger!" a demonstrator
barked at Lewis. Another called
Frank a "faggot," eliciting
laughter and cheers from nearby
protesters. Meanwhile, as another
African-American Democrat,
Representative Emanuel Cleaver,
ascended the Capitol steps, a
protester who had been screaming
at Lewis and Frank spat on his
face.
With the demonstration carried
on into the night, cries of "Kill
the bill!'' drifted into calls for
violence. "I would gladly stand
with any of you men here and
take these fascists down," a man
in camouflage battle dress
uniform proclaimed in front of an
amateur videographer, pointing
toward the Capitol. "You haven't
heard the last of me!"
The next day, Republican
members of Congress emerged
from the Longworth Building to
salute the Tea Partiers. The
demonstrators cheered wildly for
their proxies on the inside.
Finally, after hours of
impassioned speeches on the
House floor, the bill passed. But
the drama was hardly over.
Republican Representative Joe
Pitts, an anti-abortion Catholic
who co-authored Stupak's
original amendment, demanded a
motion to bring it back to the
floor for a vote, a transparent
exercise in grandstanding that
was certain to fail. In response,
Stupak rushed to the podium with
a stinging rebuke to Pitts and the
Republicans. "The motion to
commit does not support life,"
Stupak declared. "It is the
Democrats who have stood up...."
Heckling from the Republican
side interrupted his statement. As
Stupak looked around the House
chamber, Rep. Randy
Neugebauer, a right-wing
Republican from Texas who
openly supported the Birther
movement, began shouting at him
from the backbench, "Baby
killer!" Other Republicans joined
in, parroting base insults.
While the Republicans sank their
heads in defeat, some more
militant devotees of the Tea Party
movement called for a right-wing
Kristallnacht. "If you wish to
send a message that Pelosi and
her party cannot fail to hear,
break their windows,"
Vanderboegh of the Oathkeepers
wrote on a far-right blog hours
after the bill passed. "Break them
NOW. Break them and run to
break again." Within three days,
windows and doors at Democratic
Party headquarters in New York,
Kansas and Arizona had been
shattered.
Meanwhile, at least 10
Democratic members of Congress
reported receiving death threats.
Images of nooses were faxed to
the offices of Stupak and James
Clyburn, an African-American
congressman from South
Carolina. Representative Anthony
Weiner, an especially vocal
proponent of health care reform,
received a menacing letter filled
with white powder. The brother
of Representative Torn Perriello,
another health care supporter, had
his home gas line deliberately
sabotaged after a local Tea Party
organizer posted his address
online (he had meant to post the
congressman's) and encouraged
activists to "drop by" to express
their anger about Perriello's
recent vote. In Tucson, Arizona,
the windows of Democratic
Representative Gabrielle
Giffbrds' office were shattered by
shots from a pellet gun. And a
brick was thrown through the
window of Representative Louise
Slaughter's office in New York as
her voicemail filled with threats
of impending sniper attacks.
After the Passage of the health
care bill, the Tea Party floated
into a gray zone between
authoritarianism and anarchy.
Crusading to restore a holy social
order, they promoted disorder.
Claiming to protect democracy,
they smashed windows of elected
representatives. Warning of death
panels, they called in death
threats. With the atmosphere of
violence thickening, Palin took to
her Twitter account to issue a
battle cry: "Don't Retreat,
Instead—RELOAD!" Thus
concluded the first phase of the
Obama era that was to usher in a
peaceable kingdom of
bipartisanship.
Max Blumenthal is the author of
Republican GOmorrah
(Basic/Nation Books, 2009).
Contact him at
ax biumenth f..7,13 000(41vahoo.com.
C 2010 Nation Books All rights
reserved.
View this story online at:
http://www.alternetorgistory/147784/
---


---

FYI, I am forwarding you a message I just sent to Raj about the article in today's Washington Post.j
He and I agreed to work closely on this issue. I have asked INR to get us some research on the security issue which the
implementing partners frequently raise Note the comment in the
Post about the security situation.
As you know we are moving forward on the broader branding issue and plan to have a team of experts advise us as we
move forward.
I will keep you posted.
jm
---

-- Ambassador Patterson met with Zardari last night and urged him to continue his public engagements on the flooding
crisis. She believes he is getting the message.
-- President Zardari visited flood sites in northwestern Pakistan. He will do so again tomorrow.
Zardari still plans to be out of Pakistan on August 18 in Sochi. We have assurances, though, that this will be a one-day
trip.
---

Jm
---

This is what I got from s/rap:
-- Pakistan has asked the UNGA to convene a special plenary session on Pakistan on August 19 in New York. Zardari will
likely mention this and request the Secretary's participation.
---

Fyi - this should be good.
---

Ok
---

Sullivan, Jacob J <Sullivan11@state.gov>
Tuesday, August 24, 2010 9:23 AM
H; McHale, Judith A; Mills, Cheryl D
Lew, Jacob
Re: Billions of aid dollars buy U.S. little goodwill in Pakistan
Adding Cheryl back to chain.
---

yep
---

Responding just to you and Cheryl.
---

Yep - help - that's the point I was trying to make.
---

Roger.
---

Ops says that senator gregg would like to speak with you at 230 pm today. If that time is amenable to you, they will line
up the other senate calls around the same time frame. I'm happy to confirm with them.
###
---

Yes I will look into it right away and get back to you asap
---

Ops can get cochran at 1100 am. They will attempt to line up the others before noon. If any fall, we can try for the
window tomorrow.
•
---


---

Fyi
---

Thanks for the read-out. That's relatively hopeful. I am beginning to think the new OMB Director will need to have a
mini-summit on modernization
---

Great to hear.
I'm also now working on a final round of edits from Jack, Eric, Raj, and others -- also trimming and improving the flow of
the speech a bit. You'll get this revised draft tonight. If you think it is improved, we'll use it, or we can use the draft you
made your changes to, if you'd prefer.
Lissa will be in the office tomorrow to handle your edits.
You will have a teleprompter.
No reason that I know of not to include Zuma; I will add a reference.
Thank you!
---

Fyi from Sen Mitchell - he'd like to discuss results of AM meeting with you.
---


---

Yes -- last draft I read several hours ago was almost there. Let me check w/ Sonni.
---

I have asked INR if there is any research on the security issue to help guide us and I assume we could also reach out to
the IC to get their in-put.
I am working on a note to Denis which I will send to him before I leave for Argentina tonight. I'll copy all of you on it. Let
me know if you want me to run the draft by you before I send it. It will follow the lines of my note to Raj.
jm
---

did kidlet duty all weekend - will call you when you land
On Sun, Aug 15, 2010 at 6:10 PM, H <HDR22@c1intonemai1.com> wrote:
I'm on the way to the 8pm shuttle. Free until then and after thru ops on my bb or at home.
---

Madeleine mentioned at Aspen and then called on Friday to remind me that USIP has asked her to spearhead a Track 2
dialogue with Turkey. She thinks it is a good idea; as do I. If you agree, we shd obviously check with Phil and then get
back to Madeleine. AM
---

I'm sorry -- we missed our window today. I shd have insisted we send you the draft we had as of 10 am this morning
rather than Sonni doing another round of edits so that you could have used valuable weekend time. We have a draft we
can send you now, but you should probably see it when you are fresh. Time got away from us; my apologies. AM
---

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA@state.gov>
Sunday, August 15, 2010 10:03 PM
Sullivan, Jacob 1; Mills, Cheryl D
A bilat w/ Cathy Ashton on DC
---

Draft of email I will send to Denis today. Comments ?
DRAFT
Denis:
im
---

Ms: I have an 830 this morning, so rob and monica will be taking care of you until I can make it into the office
around 930.
###
---

This is memo eur put together for us-eu ministerial. We will end trip on 14th so if we did, will be on 14th or before. We
are re-mapping trip. Justin can also print.
NOTE FOR THE SECRETARY
FROM:EUR — Philip H. Gordon
SUBJECT: Proposal for a U.S.-EU Ministerial, October 15, Brussels
---

With the big plane and everyone on it?
Or we stop and switch planes?
---

19th afternoon has been confirmed
Taking a plane is a good idea so u have some flexibility.
---

Fyi - Sandy sent the attached thoughts that I think you'll find quite useful. I think you should see/call him when you're
back.
---

Will do. I believe we are aiming for early afternoon at the UN, happy to arrange the plane accordingly.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
---

Will likely start at 3.
---


---

Unfortunately, we just received our first news query on the North Korea consular visit, out of the region. We
are working this issue with EAP but will likely acknowledge the fact when asked at the briefing today.
pJ
---


---

Yes - I would put him and Martin lndyk on the list.
---

FYI.
---

FYI.
---

PIR <preines
Monday, August 16, 2010 11:48 PM
Huma Abedin; CDM; Jake Sullivan
"minister in a skirt"
http://mobile.nytimes.com/a rticle?a=644869
North Korea Takes to Twitter and YouTube By CHOE SANG-HUN The New York Times August 17, 2010
SEOUL, South Korea - North Korea has taken its propaganda war against South Korea and the United States to a new
frontier: YouTube and Twitter.
In the last month, North Korea has posted a series of video clips on YouTube brimming with satire and vitriol against
leaders in South Korea and the United States.
In one clip, it called Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton a "minister in a skirt" and Secretary of Defense Robert M.
Gates a "war maniac," while depicting the South Korean defense minister, Kim Tae-young, as a "servile dog" that likes to
be patted by "its American master."
Such language used to be standard in North Korea's cold-war-era propaganda. Its revival is testimony to the increased
chill in relations between the Koreas in recent months.
In the past week, North Korea also began operating a Twitter account under the name uriminzok, or "our nation."
Both the Twitter and YouTube accounts are owned by a user named "uriminzokkiri." The Web site
www.uriminzokkiri.com is run by the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of Korea, a propaganda agency in
Pyongyang.
Lee Jong-joo, a spokeswoman for the Unification Ministry in Seoul, said, "It is clear that these accounts carry the same
propaganda as the North's official news media, but we have not been able to find out who operates them."
The two Koreas agreed to stop their psychological war after their first summit meeting in 2000. But South Korea
resumed propaganda radio broadcasts in May, when it accused the North of torpedoing one of its warships, killing 46
sailors.
North Korea, which denies involvement, has vowed to retaliate. It appears to have found a way with Twitter and
YouTube, with their intended audience clearly South Koreans. (North Korea keeps its people isolated from the outside
world.)
"YouTube and Twitter gave North Korea a high-tech detour for its propaganda," said Paik Hak-soon, an analyst at Sjong
Institute. "But fundamentally, it's not new technology but rather political tension that drives the North to lash out
desperately in the face of mounting international pressure."
During the cold war era, South Korea punished people caught listening to North Korean broadcasts. Several years ago,
during the brief era of its "sunshine policy" of engaging the North, the South allowed its people access to North Korean
Web sites. But today, when a computer user in South Korea clicks on an item on the North Korean Twitter account, a
government warning against "illegal content" pops up.
These blocks have triggered criticism here that the Seoul government does not trust its people to form their own
opinions about the totalitarian North.
But the government says the North is using the Internet to spread conspiracy theories about who was behind the sinking
of the South Korean warship, including one claim that an American submarine did so to foster a militant mood in the
South.
The Twitter account, which provides links to the North Korean Web site, had 928 followers as of Monday. But a few
YouTube video clips uploaded by the North commanded thousands of views.
In one such clip, North Korea attacked Yu Myung-hwan, the South Korean foreign minister, who recently criticized "pro-
North Korean youths" who voted for the opposition in the June local elections, saying, "If they like the North so much,
they should go and live under Kim Jong-il."
The clip's narrator calls Mr. Yu a "pro-American flunky" and advised Mr. Yu to earn a living "mopping the floor of the
Pentagon."
Another clip claimed that North Korea would prevail in a war with the "American imperialists" because it was armed
with nuclear-fusion technology; because of its juche, or ideology of "self-reliance"; and because of a philosophical
treatise written by Kim II-sung, the North's founding president and the father of Kim Jong-il, who died in 1994.
"I don't think this propaganda from the North will have any significant impact among South Koreans," said Yoo Ho-yeol,
an expert on North Korea at Korea University here. "People watch this for fun, not to be influenced."
---

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:30 am MEETING w/LISSA MUSCATINE
10:00 am Secretary's Office
10:10 am PHOTOS
10:15 am Secretary's Outer Office
10:15 am VIDEOS (6)
10:30 am George Marshall Room, 7th Floor
10:30 am BRIEFING w/STAFF
12:00 pm Secretary's Conference Room
12:00 pm OFFICE TIME
12:30 pm Secretary's Office
12:30 pm OTR LUNCH
2:00 pm Secretary's Outer Office
2:00 pm OFFICE TIME
2:30 pm Secretary's Office
2:30 pm MEETING w/JOSE FERNANDEZ
3:00 pm Secretary's Outer Office
3:00 pm MEETING w/UNGA TEAM
3:30 pm Secretary's Outer Office
3:30 pm OFFICE TIME
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department
En route Private Residence
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
---

Fyi, note I sent to Denis.
---

Blago found guilty of lying to the FBI; will be retried on the other 23 counts; jury hung on 27 counts
(4 agst his brother)
---

###
---

no word from mashabane yet.
Or menendez (though menendez did try my cell while I was on plane) And alexander is available all day tomorrow till
1pm if u want to call.
---

I did not. Very aggravating. There is some kind of disconnect. We are still waiting to hear back on mashabane's
availability. Nothing yet scheduled for tomorrow, but we still have menendez and alexander outstanding. Menendez's
staff owes us a call back. Alexander is free up until lpm tomorrow.
---


---


---

I'm sure if she's around. Will ask.
---

FYI. We are working some of this into the remarks.
---

FYI
---

Well its clearly a state vs outside email issue. State has been trying to figure it out. So lj is getting all your emazils cause
she's on her personal account too.
---

Nor do I. Its strange that it seems to be a recent problem with our emails, and there is no rhyme or reason to why some
go through and others don't. In the mean time, ill always confirm for you right away when I receive your emails, even if
an answer is still pending.
---

- did u get yu call sheet in pouch. Let me know if u want to schedule.
- alexander available until 1.
- menendez: can talk at 8pm today or tomorrow or thurs after 12pm
- mashabane is traveling in china so no word yet.
---

Lissa Muscatine <
Tuesday, August 17, 2010 11:44 PM
Most importantly....
I enjoyed our talk too, but forgot to mention the most important thing of all -- how much I appreciate your bringing me
to State and giving me this opportunity. I have learned so much, meant so many smart and capable people, and hope I
have contributed in some small way to what you are working so hard to accomplish.
I'll write a formal letter for "the file" when I leave conveying all of these thoughts„ but I wanted to say something in
person too.
Unfortunately, I got carried away on sports diplomacy and everything else and ....another senior moment!
I'll let you know when I have had a chance to talk to Judith and Ann about the ideas I'm putting together on sports. I do
think there is potential to do much more than is being done now -- and more creatively.
---

Has a call into you re: the American Turkish Council.
###
---

Ok I will get to work on them right away and let you know.
---

I will spare you the details of the computer disaster we suffered, which always happens at critical times, but we lost a
night of work. We are back on draft and will have a draft ready for you to engage much more closely with -- line edits etc
around noon. We will also have to send that version to WH to have any hope of making friday deadline, which is
absolutely hard. We will still b able to make changes in editing process though.
The good news is that I do think the piece is getting better and better, which is also improving the QDDR itself.
AM
---

MS - Bob Einhorn is asking that you hold on the Yu call for now. The Deputy FM is currently in DC. Will meet w/ Einhorn
at 1:00pm. Einhorn will reassess the need for a call after his meeting.
I've reached out to Sen. Alexander's office and am waiting to hear back from them about his availability.
---

Will do. Still waiting on a call-back from his staff. I asked them if we could do within the next hour (before 11:30 am)
---

One nice thing out of an otherwise messy trip (elections) ...
---

I am currently traveling with intermittent access to email. If you need immediate assistance, please contact Nora Toiv
(toivnf@state.gov) at 202-647-8633 or Joanne Laszczych (Laszczych1@state.gov) at 202-647-5548.
If it is an emergency after business hours, please reach out to our Operations Center to have them reach me.
Thank you
cdm
---

Tell you in person
---

Alexander can talk at 10:50 AM this morning (in 20 minutes). I can lock it in for that time and have Ops connect to you.
---

Ok sounds good
---

FYI - Jerusalem mayor causing problem again with sensitive housing plan that could result in further
demolitions/dislocations.
Dan and David have engaged Molho.
---

We were aiming for a draft by the end of the day. Part of the problem is that we have also gotten detailed comments
from jack and raj, as well as v good comments from Jake, that sonni is trying to include. Lissa and I will meet as soon as
we get in and see how fast we can get you something. I know you are heading for well-deserved vacation, but cd you still
find some time to review a final draft this weekend? AM
---

Will do.
---


---

Huma -- Could you print this document. It has the two different openings for the FA piece. Thx. Lissa
---

Yes. We are trying to re-do the opening per Jake right now. Also adding more granularity.
---

sbwhoeop
Wednesday, August 18, 2010 9:18 AM
H: Interesting and relevant contribution to debate on interrelated jobs issue and China policy. Go back to your proposals
on revival of manufacturing sector, too. What is Bill's program on lm jobs you mentioned? If they won't listen, he should
simply do an op-ed. Sid
Does Thomas Friedman Have to Talk to "Senior Economic Policy Makers" to Get So
Many Things Wrong?
Dean Baker is co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, DC.
Wednesday, 18 August 2010 04:04
Thomas Friedman begins his oiece 1Q(44v by telling readers that: "over the past few weeks I've had a chance to
speak with senior economic policy makers in America and Germany." This might lead readers to believe that
he is about to share some great insights that would only be possible for someone with special access to these
senior economic policy makers.
Readers with this expectation will be seriously disappointed. There is nothing here that is more insightful than
what can be found on the Washington Post's editorial pages on an average workday. Friedman rehashes the
usual cliches, with the usual lack of thought. In doing so, he gets both the story of the recent past and the
present seriously wrong.
Starting with the past, he badly misrepresents the prior business cycle:
"we've just ended more than a decade of debt-fueled growth during which we borrowed money from China to
give ourselves a tax cut and more entitlements but did nothing to curtail spending or make long-term
investments in new growth engines."
The main problem facing the U.S. economy of the last decade was a lack of demand. This was in large part due
to the fact that China lent to us. China's lending was its policy of propping up the value of the dollar in order to
maintain its export market in the United States. (At the start of the decade, the Clinton administration had also
tried to promote an over-valued dollar.) The over-valued -U.S. dollar made imports from China and other
countries very cheap in the United States and made our exports expensive in other countries. This led to a large
and growing trade deficit over most of the business cycle. The trade deficit replaced domestic demand,
preventing the economy from approaching normal levels of employment (even with the boost from the housing
bubble) until just before the crash.
There is no reason whatsoever to believe that China's decision to prop up the dollar was in any way affected by
the Bush tax cuts. In other words, neither the Bush tax cuts nor the growth in entitlements had anything to do
with our borrowing from China. The issue was China's decision to lend and thereby prop up the dollar. Given
the weakness of demand through most of the decade, these expenses could have been easily filled by domestic
production without borrowing from abroad.
Friedman does no better when he shifts the discussion from the past to the present. He refers to businesses'
reluctance to hire as the result of "unusual uncertainty," a phrase attributed to Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Ben Bemanke. Of course there is no reluctance to hire, there is simply a lack of demand for labor. A reluctance
to hire would be reflected in an increasing number of hours per worker, as employers sought to meet their
demand for labor by working the existing workforce more hours.
This is not happening. There is a modest uptick in hours from the low point of the downturn, but the increase
in hours per worker is certainly no more rapid than in other recessions and the average workweek is still far
shorter in just about every sector than it was before the downturn.
Later he tells readers:
"America's solvency inflection point is coinciding with a technological one. Thanks to Internet diffusion, the
rise of cloud computing, social networking and the shift from laptops and desktops to hand-held iPads and
iF'hones, technology is destroying older, less skilled jobs that paid a decent wage at a faster pace than ever
while spinning off more new skilled jobs that pay a decent wage but require more education than ever."
This is a great story -- social networking is soaring, IPads are everywhere -- does Friedman have any evidence
whatsoever that this development has increased the demand for educated workers and reduced the demand for
less educated workers? If so, this would be the place in his column to present the evidence. Otherwise, readers
might think that the 4.7 percent unemployment rate for college grads (nearly triple the pre-recession level),
coupled with a decline in their real wages over the decade, implies a reduced demand for the labor of highly
educated workers as well as less educated workers.
Friedman's proposed fix also seems a bit wide of the mark. He insists:
"There is only one way to deal with this challenge: more innovation to stimulate new industries and jobs that
can pay workers $40 an hour, coupled with a huge initiative to train more Americans to win these jobs over
their global competitors. There is no other way."
We better hope there is another way. A wage of $40 an hour would put a worker well over the 90th percentile
on the wage distribution. Even if we double the number of jobs in this pay range -- an incredible
accomplishment -- what happens to the other 80 percent of the workforce?
Friedman then warns us of the challenge from Europe by getting Germany's past and present wrong:
"Keeping up with Germany won't be easy. A decade ago Germany was the 'sick man of Europe.' No more. The
Germans pulled together. Labor gave up wage hikes and allowed businesses to improve competitiveness and
worker flexibility, while the government subsidized firms to keep skilled workers on the job in the downturn."
Germany clearly has done sorne changes that benefited its economy, like work sharing, and some that haven't,
but its past as the "sick man of Europe" is an invention of Friedman or his highly placed sources. Germany
always ran a trade surplus. That is the most basic measure of a country's competitiveness: foreigners are buying
its goods. Germany's unemployment rate in 2.000 ayeravd 7
.,5_percept, not hugely different than its current 7.0
percent rate.
The story here is that Friedman seems to have completely missed the basics of the current economic crisis in
spite of his weeks of conversing with senior economic policy makers. The current crisis is due to a lack of
demand pure and simple. If we generate demand either through more expansionary Fed monetary policy,
greater fiscal stimulus, or increased exports due to a falling dollar, there is no reason to believe that the
economy will not return to high levels of employment. Certainly Friedman has presented no evidence that
increased demand will not generate increased employment as it always has.
The longer term debt problem is overwhelmingly a health care story. Apparently Mr. Friedman's sources don't
have access to documents like the Medicare trustees report, which imply that U.S. health care costs will be
controlled and there will be no serious long-term deficit problem. This may prove -Wrong, but it seems that it
would have at least been worth noting in his column. Of course, if we have not fixed our health care system,
we can always achieve huge saving by retyinq on the more efficient health care systems in other countries.
If Friedman's intention was to scare us, he succeeded. After all, if senior economic policy makers in the U.S.
and Germany are as badly misinformed as Friedman implies, then we can expect some very had times ahead.
---

Ebeling, Betsy <
Wednesday, August 18, 2010 12:10 PM
H
RE:
---

I don't want to keep you hanging all evening. I will spare you the excuses; we think we can have
you something by 9:00. In some ways it's getting rougher before it's getting smoother, as we get the
top right and add examples. But it would be very good to have you engage again to make sure we
are going in the right direction. This draft also benefits from extensive comments from Jack, Raj,
and Jake. AM
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
---


---

As you have probably figured out by now, it's not ready. We were prepared to send you something rough, but it's just
not in a state where it makes sense for you to engage. I will call Jim Hoge tomorrow and get another week of need be;
Lissa is going to take over the drafting tomorrow with the aim of getting you a draft by late afternoon that you can really
take some time with; we will then take your comments Friday or Sat (if you need more time) and then not bother you
again until we have a final. I'm sorry, but it is most important that this be good.
AM
---


---

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am WEEKLY MEETING w/REGIONAL BUREAU SECRETARIES
10:00 am Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
10:00 am OFFICE TIME
10:30 am Secretary's Office
10:30 am TAPED TELEVISION INTERVIEW w/ANVVAR IQBAL, DAWN NEWS
10:40 am Marshall Room
10:45 am TAPED TELEVISION INTERVIEW w/SAMI ABRAHAM, GEO TV
10:55 am Marshall Room
11:00 am OFFICE TIME
11:40 am Secretary's Office
11:45 am DEPART State Department
En route Andrews AFB
12:10 pm ARRIVE Andrews AFB
12:20 pm DEPART Andrews AFB via US Air Force Military Aircraft Tail #70400
En route New York, NY-LaGuardia Airport
1:10 pm ARRIVE New York, New York-LaGuardia Airport
1:20 pm DEPART New York-LaGuardia Airport
En route United Nations
2:00 pm ARRIVE United Nations
2:00 pm MEETING w/FOREIGN MINISTER MEHMOOD QURESHI, PAKISTAN
2:20 pm Room GA-TSC-03C (P5 Meeting Room) *Camera spray at top.
2:40 pm MEETING w/SECRETARY GENERAL BAN KI-MOON
3:00 pm GA-200 (Room directly behind the General Assembly Dias) *Camera spray at
top.
3:00 pm REMARKS AT THE UNITED NATIONS SPECIAL PLENARY SESSION
4:20 pm (t) ON FLOOD RELIEF FOR PAKISTAN General Assembly Hall
4:20 pm (t) DEPART United Nations
En route Private Residence
5:10 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence ###
---

Waiting on yu.
Alexander will be pretty soon.
---

sbwhoeop
Wednesday, August 25, 2010 10:52 AM
worth reading, even if you know the Intel
B6
H: I'm sure you know the facts in this well-informed piece, how Mullah Omar was saved by ISI, for example, but the idea
of Afghanistan as an aspect of lndo-Pak war is the best and overarching strategic concept. Sid
http://www.newstatesman.com/asia/2010/08/india-pakistan-afghanistan
iNT aLOSE
The military and the mullahs
William Dalrymple
Published 23 August 2010
The Pakistani state has a long history of nurturing jihadis as a means of dominating Afghanistan and undermining India.
It is proving a fatal alliance.
It May have been a nightmarish year for Pakistan but it has been a pretty good one for the country's inscrutable chief of
army staff, the most powerful man in the Land of the Pure, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.
For a start, the army's response to the floods has compared well to the usual corrupt incompetence of Pakistan's civilian
politicians, guided by their chateau-hopping president, Asif Ali Zardari (while minister for investment, he was nicknamed
"Mr 10 Per Cent"; he has now been upgraded to "Mr 110 Per Cent"). This has led to discussion in army circles about
whether it is time to drop the civilian fig leaf and return the country to the loving embrace of its military. So serious is this
threat, that one of the country's most senior and well-connected journalists. Najam Sethi, editor-in-chief of the Friday
Times, went on the record this month to warn that elements in the army were plotting yet another coup."( know this is
definitely being discussed," he said.
Then there was the news that Kayani was going to be allowed to keep his job for a second term: "an extraordinary
situation requires an extraordinary decision to overcome it", explained a brigadier, writing in the Nation newspaper.
Kayani, a former head of Pakistan's notorious intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISO, can now continue
to run the army, and by default Pakistan's foreign policy, until November 2013.
But Kayani's biggest triumph this year, arguably the greatest of his career, was his visit to Kabul in July as the honoured
guest of the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai. The visit marked an important thawing in Pak-Afghan relations, which
have been glacial ever since Karzai came to power in 2001. It also coincided with the sacking of Amrullah Saleh,
Karzai's pro-Indian and rabidly anti-ISI former security chief. Saleh is a tough Tajik who rose to prominence as a
mujahedin protege of Ahmed Shah Massoud, the Indian-backed "Lion of Panjshir". The Taliban, and their sponsors in
the ISI, had regarded Saleh as their fiercest opponent, something Saleh was enormously proud of.
When I had dinner with him in Kabul in May, he spoke at length of his frustration with the ineffectiveness of Karzai's
government in taking the fight to the Taliban, and the extent to which the ISI was managing to aid, arm and train its
puppet insurgents in North Waziristan and Balochistan. Saleh's sacking gave notice of an important change of direction
by Karzai. As Bruce Riedel, Barack Obama's Af-Pak adviser, said when the news broke, "it means that Karzai is already
planning for a post-American Afghanistan". •
It seems that Kayani and Karzai are discussing some sort of accommodation between the Afghan government and ISI-
sponsored elements in the Taliban, maybe those of Sirajuddin Haqqani, which could give over much of the Pashtun
south to pro-Pakistan Taliban, but preserve Karzai in power in Kabul after the US withdrawal. The expulsion of India,
Pakistan's great regional rival, from Afghanistan, or at least the closing of its four regional consulates, would be a top
priority for the ISI in return for any deal that kept Karzai in power.
With the US toppling of the Taliban after the 11 September 2001 attacks, Pakistan's influence disappeared abruptly from
Afghanistan and
India quickly filled the vacuum. To the ISI's horror, in the early years of this decade, India provided reconstruction
assistance and training worth roughly £835m in total. It also built roads, sanitation projects, the new Afghan parliament
and free medical facilities across the country. It even offered to help train the Afghan army. Nato refused. As General
Stanley McChrystal put it in a report last year, "while Indian activities largely benefit the Afghan people, increasing Indian
influence in Afghanistan is likely to exacerbate regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures".
McChrystal was right. The Pakistanis have always been paranoid about the small Indian presence in Afghanistan. "We
have strong evidence [that India is] using Afghanistan against Pakistan's interests to destabilise Pakistan," a foreign
ministry spokesman claimed in March. Pakistan's military establishment, terrified of the economic superpower emerging
to the south, believes it would be suicide to accept an Indian presence in what it regards as its Afghan backyard - a
potential point of retreat for the army in the event of an Indian invasion, something Pakistani analysts refer to as vital
"strategic depth".
According to Indian diplomatic sources, there are still fewer than 3,600 Indians in Afghanistan; there are only ten Indian
diplomatic officers, as opposed to nearly 150 in the UK embassy. Yet the horror of being encircled has led the ISI to risk
Pakistan's relationship with its main strategic ally, the US, in order to keep the Taliban in play and its leadership under
ISI patronage in Quetta - a policy Kayani developed while head of the IS!. Karzai's new deal with the Pakistanis, and his
clear intention to try to reach some accommodation with their proxies among the Taliban, therefore represents a major
strategic victory for Kayani and Pakistan's military, as well as a grave diplomatic defeat for India.
Pakistan's support for the Taliban today is only the most recent chapter of an old story of complicity between jihadi
movements and the Pakistani state. Since the days of the anti-Soviet mujahedin, Pakistan's army saw violent Islamic
groups as an ingenious and cost-effective means of both dominating Afghanistan (which they finally achieved with the
retreat of the Soviets in 1987) and bogging down the Hindu-dominated Indian army in Kashmir (which they managed
with great effect from 1990 onwards).
The former ISI director and Dick Dastardly lookalike Hamid Gul, who was largely responsible for developing the strategy,
once said to me: "If the jihadis go out and contain India, tying down one rnillion men of their army on their own soil, for a
legitimate cause, why should we not support them?" Next to Gul in his Islamabad living room lay a piece of the Berlin
Wall presented to him by the city's people for "delivering the first blow" to the Soviet empire through his use of jihadis in
the 1980s. The WikiLeaks documents suggest he is still busy liaising with jihadis in his "retirement".
The Pakistani military top brass were long convinced that they could control the militants they have nurtured. In a taped
conversation between President Pervez Musharraf and Muhammad Aziz Khan, his chief of general staff, that India
released in 1999, Aziz said the army had the jihadis by their "tooti" (balls). Yet the Islamists have increasingly followed
their own agendas, sending suicide bombers out against not just Pakistan's religious minorities and political leaders, but
even the IS! headquarters. Nonetheless, many in the army still believe the jihadis are a more practical defence against
Indian hegemony than nuclear weapons. For them, supporting Islamist groups is not an ideological or religious whim, so
much as a practical and patriotic imperative - a vital survival strategy for a Pakistani state.
The army and ISI continued this duplicitous and risky policy after 11 September 2001 despite Musharrafs public
promises to the contrary. The speed with which the US lost interest in Afghanistan after its invasion and embarked on
plans to invade Iraq convinced the Pakistani army that the Washington had no long-term commitment to Karzai's
regime. This led to the generals keeping the Taliban in reserve, to be used to reinstal a pro-Pakistani regime in Kabul
once the American gaze had turned elsewhere.
So it was that the .ISI gave refuge to the leadership of the Taliban after it fled from Afghanistan in 2001. Mullah
Mohammed Omar was kept in an IS! safehouse in Quetta; his militia was lodged in the sprawling suburb of
Pashtunabad. There, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar presided over the Taliban military committee and war chest.
Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the leader of Hizb-e-lslami, was lured back from exile in Iran and allowed to operate freely
outside Peshawar, while Jalaluddin Haqqani, one of the most violent Taliban commanders, was given sanctuary in North
Waziristan. Other groups were despatched to safehouses in Balochistan.
By 2004, the US had filmed Pakistani army trucks delivering Taliban fighters at the Afghan border and recovering them
a few days later; wireless monitoring at the US base at Bagram picked up Taliban commanders arranging with Pakistani
army officers at the border for safe passage as they came in and out of Afghanistan. Western intelligence agencies
concluded that the ISI was running a full training programme for the Afghan Taliban, turning a blind eye as they raised
funds in the Gulf and allowing them to import materiel, mainly via Dubai. By 2005 the Taliban, with covert Pakistani
support, were launching a full-scale assault on Nato troops in Afghanistan and being given covering fire as they returned
to their bases in Pakistan.
At the same time, Taliban attacks on Indian interests in Afghanistan intensified, beginning the process of turning the
Afghan conflict, like that in Kashmir, into what it is today: an lndo-Pak proxy war. The Indian embassy in Kabul was twice
bombed - in July 2008 and October 2009 - as were two city-centre hotels thought to have been used by the Research
and Analysis Wing (Raw), the Indian intelligence agency. Seven Indian civilians and two Indian military officers died in
the blasts.
The degree to which the ISI has been controlling the Afghan Taliban has only just become clear, and not just in the
documents published by WikiLeaks. A report by Matt Waldman of the Carr Centre for Human Rights at Harvard, based
on interviews with ten former senior Taliban commanders, closely documents how the IS! "orchestrates, sustains and
strongly influences" the Taliban and shows how the !SI is even represented on the Taliban's supreme leadership
council, the Quetta Shura.
Meanwhile, in the Punjab, Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, founder of Lashkar-e-Toiba, and the man believed to have been
behind the 2008 Bombay attacks, has been allowed to continue operating from Muridke, near Lahore. "The powerful
western world is terrorising Muslims," he told a conference in Islamabad this year. "We are being invaded, manipulated
and looted. We must fight the evil trio of America, Israel and India. Suicide missions are in accordance with Islam. In
fact, a suicide attack is the best form of jihad."
At the same time as Pursuing its policy of selectively using jihadis, Pakistan has appeased the US by giving generous
assistance to the CIA in arresting foreign Arab al-Qaeda personnel. A major assault was also launched against both the
militants who took over the Lal Masjid and the ultra-radical Pakistan Taliban who took over the Swat Valley and
announced their intention of turning the country into an Islamic Emirate. In the course of these operations and others in
the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, more than 1,500 Pakistani soldiers and policemen were killed; another 250,000
people were made homeless in the Pak army assault on Bajaur. The IS1 has even been prepared to arrest any members
of the Afghan Taliban who didn't follow orders. Hence the seizure in Karachi, in February, of the Taliban second-in-
command, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, along with aboutia dozen other senior Taliban whom the ISI regarded as
infringing on their hospitality by opening talks with the Karzai administration via the Saudis, without ISI clearance.
Yet, even though the Pakistani army has conducted major offensives in six of the tribal areas, the seventh, North
Waziristan, has been left alone, as it is home to the ISI's favourite proxies: Haqqani and Hekmatyar. Similarly, Pakistan's
foot-dragging response to the 2008 attacks on Bombay, and the lack of response to the attacks on minority faith groups
in Pakistan over the past few months, show that the Janus-faced policy remains in place. This summer, the chief
minister of the Punjab, Shahbaz Sharif, was quoted heatedly denying that there were any militant groups working in the
Pakistani Punjab, or that the Punjabi Taliban even existed. There are still, in the eyes of many in the Pakistani
establishment, good Taliban and bad Taliban, useful militants and expendable ones.
In their eyes, the ongoing defeat of Nato in Afghanistan, with US and British troops suffering record casualties last
month, is a vindication of its long-term strategy. Islamabad has succeeded in regaining influence in Afghanistan and
Delhi has been checked. But India will not take this lying down. Already the Indian press has reported attempts to -
resuscitate the Northern Alliance as a contingency against the Taliban's takeover of the south, and here India is working
in conjuction with Russia, Iran and the central Asian "stans". The Indian national security adviser, Shivshankar Menon,
was despatched to Afghanistan in March, and the foreign minister, S M Krishna, has visited Tehran. Post-American
Afghanistan is looking increasingly likely to be divided between the Tajik, Uzbek and Hazara north and the Pashtun
south, either formally, with a partition, or more likely, to slip into inter-ethnic civil war, with India supporting and arming
the north and Pakistan the south.
As diplomacy gathers pace, the Afghan Taliban, who already control over 70 per cent of the country. continue to
increase their power. The most worrying development has been the spread of Taliban units to the previously peaceful
north, where they have taken over pockets of Pathan settlement around Kunduz and Badakhshan. The death of the
British aid worker Karen Woo on 5 August was a direct result.
In Pakistan. too, jihadi activity is growing. Last year there were 87 suicide attacks across the country, killing roughly
3,000 people and the ISI this week stated that, for the first time in the nation's history, it regarded home-grown Islamic
militants to be a bigger threat to the integrity of the nation than India. Yet the army continues to obsess about India. In a
recent speech, Kayani emphasised that although the army knows the dangers of militancy, it was against Indian attacks
that he was principally focused. At a time when Pakistan's economy is in crisis, electricity supply increasingly erratic and
the educational system in complete breakdown, Kayani has secured a huge increase in the country's defence budget.
It is not a pretty picture: growing violence everywhere, increasing Indo-Pak tensions and a defeat for western interests in
the region. Worst of all, because the Pakistani army regards this as a major triumph, it is unlikely to change its policy any
time soon.
William Dalrymple's "Nine Lives: in Search of the Sacred in Modern India" won the first Asia House Literary Award in
May and is newly published in paperback (Bloomsbury, £8.99)
---


---

Yes
---

Justin printing for you
Talked to einhorn, he doesn't have mtg till 1pm. So if you called, needs to be after meeting. And there will be a new call
sheet.
---

The girls' team will deliver!
---


---

David is interested - we will need to discuss what I add to my discussion with torn re portfolio
---

7pm start time
Casual buffet dinner at their house in east hampton Book party for rosanne cash
---

Jim Hoge says that he REALLY would like it by next Wed but can stretch it to next Friday — after
that it's a "no go." AM
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
---

This is the proposed statement:
STATEMENT BY SECRETARY CLINTON
One-Year Anniversary of Release of Abdel Basset Mohamed al-Megrahi
---

You've probably heard but they are holding the article for a day at least.
---

She's driving and not checking email maybe.
Just called. She thinks 7:15pm is realistic.
---

Sorry for the delay. Abt 15 minutes away. We hit some traffic in new jersey.
---

I just got it. CDM now has.
---

Also, WashPost has now flipped it's decision and intends to run the piece. RCH will reach out to Hiatt, but it's not clear
what else we can do.
---


---

8:00 am Call Iv/ Israeli PM Netanyahu
8:10 am Private Residence
8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am OFFICE TIME
11:15 am Secretary's Office
11:20 am DEPART State Department
En route Andrews Air Force Base
11:50 am ARRIVE Andrews Air Force Base
12:00 pm DEPART Andrews Air Force Base
En route White Plains, Westchester County Airport
1:00 pm ARRIVE White Plains, Westchester County Airport
1:10 pm DEPART Westchester County Airport
En route Private Residence
1:25 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
---

See below. Terrific piece from the BBC which I will circulate.
Meant to mention yesterday that I am going to Buenos Aires, Montevideo and Santiago next week. In Buenos Aires and
Montevideo I will speaking at two business conferences being hosted by Council of the Americas and in Chile I will be
visiting some of the public diplomacy programs we launched after the earthquake.
You may recall that I have a long-standing relationship with Christina Kirchner going back to my Discovery days. We had
quite a large and successful business there. We are trying to arrange for me to meet with her when I am in BA
and Arturo has briefed me on points he would like me to make if I get to spend some time with her.
I thought yesterday went well although I think it is going to be hard going to keep the world interested and committed
to raising the necessary funding.
im
---

H: Pat Lang's view of the resumed talks. Sid
."IsraePaestinialpeace talks expected to resume in Se4zitember" Washst
"The Middle East peace process resumed in May, after a hiatus of 19 months, but it stalled
again over the terms of moving from indirect talks, mediated by U.S. envoy George Mitchell,
to direct negotiations.
.israel insists it is ready for direct talks, provided there are no preconditions. The Palestinians
are ready provided there is a clear agenda. Israel says an agenda means preconditions.
Resolving the snag over terms is crucial, diplomats say." Washpost
The former NY Times reporter Judy Miller likes to address me as "gloomy gus" or some such
thing when I encounter her. Well, stand by for some more gloom.
The second Camp David talks failed because Dennis Ross and company placed the
Palestinian delegation in a position in which a "solution" was demanded and expected by the
Americans and Israelis on the basis of bargaining during the negotiations themselves.
This seemed reasonable at the time to the US and Israeli negotiators. After all, is this not
what one does? Should not the outcome be the product of the dialectic of argument and
persuasion?
Arabs generally think not. They tend to believe that negotiations are for the purpose of of
arranging the details of outcomes that are understood in advance of the conference itself. For
them, anything else is an attempt to win concessions through trickery.
"The Palestinians are ready provided there is a clear agenda. Israel says an agenda means
preconditions."
Hello! What kind of nonsense is this? Have we learned nothing?
And then, there is the "little" matter of the non-participation of Hamas. Does the Obama
Administration really think that this 600 pound gorilla can be ignored? Is this some sort of
scheme on the part of Natanyahu, and "the boys" to discredit Abbas so that an isolated
Hamas can be attacked and destroyed later?
Realism in diplomacy is a desirable thing. George Mitchell used to be smarter than this. His
staff should be advising him not to do this. Failure will be catastrophic.
All the players should be engaged, and they are not. The outcome should be known in
advance and it is not.
This is both childish and destructive. pl
http://www.washiLigtorsost. cortilwp-dyn/contentiarticie;2010/0811 9/AR201 0081 907203 htrni
---

Lissa Muscatine <
Friday, August 20, 2010 11:09 AM
Re: Most importantly....
Thanks for your nice words. They mean a lot. I will always, always play for your team, officially or not!
Many more thoughts on sports diplomacy that I'm excited about. And yes, once a jock, now an aging jock!
On QDDR article, you'll see that a lot is missing (most notably a section on the Middle East, as well as China, Western
Hemisphere (we should probably mention ECPA), a good energy example per David Goldwyn, et. al). it may also be too
Pakistan heavy, though it is a great example of everything we are trying to do. My main goal was to try to ground the
many elements at play in a more coherent narrative with a theme and thread that carried through. Didn't have enough
time on the bottom third. Hopefully this version gives us something to work with, though.
And I really hope you get some semblance of time off this week. If only the world would, for once, cooperate.
On Aug 19, 2010, at 3:51 PM, H wrote:
> It has, as always, been a joy to have you on the team. We've worked
> together for so long, that I always feel better when I know you're
> there--putting words in my mouth and watching my back.
> I enjoyed our talk and was delighted to hear about all you're planning
> to do--especially on the sports front. Just goes to show, once a jock
> always a jock!
> Thx too for the rescue effort you're doing on the ODOR article.
>
---


---

FYI
---

Give me 10 minutes to get to my car.
---

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, August 20, 2010 4:03 PM
FW: Congrats Again
---

We are working to incorporate some of the missing links but I haven't gotten any comments from anyone. I am hoping
Jake is reading it this afternoon and AMS says she will have comments by this evening. We can get another draft to you
tomorrow if that would be best and save you some time. But do let me know if there is anything major that you think is
off, or should be excised or any other red flags. I won't be able to work on it until later tonight (am driving Max to PA for
a soccer tournament but can work on it when I get there).
On Aug 20, 2010, at 3:16 PM, H wrote:
> I think the article is headed in the right direction but I agree w you
> that the points you mention should be referenced. Are you getting
> comments from others? Should I wait for the next draft to comment?
>
---


---

First, you've doubtless heard
Second, I just gave extensive comments to Lissa and AMS on the article. Think I see a path to a decent place.
---


---

Wherever you are. What a great note to start your vacation on. Lissa and I had a great conversation w/ Jake tonight; the
argument is becoming clearer and clearer. I am leery of promises, but we are aiming for another draft to you before
noon on Sunday.
Have fun!
AM
---


---

Very sweet email from Harvey. Let me know if you want the movies.
You were amazing yesterday. Will look for direction on details for the upcoming talks.
---

Thanks for making the START calls. Will follow-up as discussed.
On election news, Murkowski has come back a bit, but is still down a good 2K votes. Many rural precincts
have yet to report, and there are some 7600 absentee ballots yet to be counted. Will likely take another week to
come to closure.
With 429 of 438 precincts reporting
Joe Miller (R) 45,909 51.09%
Lisa Murkowski (R) 43,949 48.91%
---

I am currently out of the office. If you need immediate assistance, please contact Joanne Laszczych
(LaszczychJ@state.gov) at 202-647-5548.
Thank you
cdm
---


---

I am pretty flexible on time of call.
---

For donilon, he can do from 9:45-12 on fri. What time do u want to do?
Also, they did phone and ringer test and it worked fine. But can only go secure thru ops 647 1512. With red switch, it
was dropping a few times.
---

Now is good. -- really any time other than 4:30-5:15 will work. AM
---

With regard to the two tops, I agree that Lissa's original top was more elegant, but Jim thought, and Jake and I agreed,
that the piece is not as compelling as it could be if we could be clearer about what you actually see coming down the
road that informs your focus on modernizing diplomacy (e.g., you see the proliferation of foundations, corporations,
ngos in the world as an opportunity, particularly given that we have more problems to deal with with the same
bandwidth, so you want to start training people now to do public private partnerships; or you see public opinion as
steadily increasing in importance, so we have to be doing public engagement in a big way). I tried to do that quickly in
the following graph, but w/o being able to draw all the connections.
---

Ok
---


---


---

Mashabane has offered a call time of 8:00 this morning. If that is amenable to you, I can set it up.
###
---

Re-sending with a cc to my personal acct just to be sure I didn't miss an email. In the mean time, I'm working to
determine if there are any other windows of availability
---

I think we've lost our availability for today but ill double check. If she is free, ill have ops connect her over. If not, she is
avail btw 6-8 am tmw am.
---

No problem! I'm on it
---

Ms,
Mashabane is no longer available this morning, but can do anytime btw 6-8 am tomorrow morning. Let me know if you'd
like us to lock in a time.
---

Yes, will work on setting that up and let you know.
---

Marking a landmark moment for all
Daily Herald Editorial Board
Published: 8/26/2010 12:05 AM
Today marks a watershed moment in our nation's history.
Know what it is? Any plans to celebrate the occasion? Ninety years ago this day, the United States
secretary of state signed into law the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution giving women the right
to vote.
That significant moment in history securing that basic civil right for one of the two genders in
existence came after a more than 70-year struggle that saw pioneering "radical" women jailed and
physically abused as they fought for justice.
Ninety years ago today. Not all that long ago, really. We still have women among us who lived during
a time when this basic but powerful activity was prohibited. Denied to their mothers and
grandmothers, older sisters and aunts.
Illinois played a pivotal role in the struggle, and Illinois and suburban women continue to mark our
history, politics and policy. And they should continue to by exercising their right, speaking out and
working to change policies that affect us all.
Illinois did not allow women to vote in presidential and local elections until 1913 and, according to
votingwomen.org, Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin were the first three states to ratify the 19th
Amendment on June 10, 1919.
From the start, Illinois and its suburbs have been home to pioneering women. Libertyville's Clara
Colby is listed as the first woman to vote, having cast a ballot for a new town hall while, papers at the
time reported, her husband stayed home to "scrub clothes in the laundry."
There is Jane Addams, the Cedarville, III., native social worker and suffragist who founded Chicago's
Hull House and was one of the first women to win a Nobel Peace Prize.
And Illinois has elected 14 female members of Congress. The first was Chicago Republican Winnifred
S. Huck, only the third woman elected to Congress, just two years after the 19th Amendment
ratification. Huck was the first wife and mother elected to Congress. Republican Ruth Hanna
McCormick worked as a Springfield lobbyist who helped pass the law allowing Illinois women to vote
in some elections in 1913 before she moved on to Congress. Democrat Emily Taft Douglas, an early
leader of the League of Women Voters and an internationalist who was the wife of former U.S. Sen.
Paul Douglas and a cousin to President William H. Taft, beat isolationist Republican Stephen Day in
1945, according to the Women in Congress website.
In more recent times, Rockford Republican Lynn Martin moved from Congress to Labor Secretary
and Chicago Democrat Carol Moseley Braun became the first black woman in the U.S. Senate. Now,
of course, we also have Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who hails from Park Ridge. In the suburban
trenches all along the way, women have been leading and agitating for change. Former Democratic
state Rep. Eugenia Chapman of Arlington Heights is credited with helping start community colleges in
Illinois. Republican Giddy Dyer of Hinsdale joined her in supporting the Equal Rights Amendment and
also passed DuPage County's first clean air ordinance. Chapman worked with Republican Virginia B.
Macdonald of Arlington Heights to establish a women's center at Harper College. And omit goes.
Nice, you say, but big deal? Indeed, they were a big deal and, indeed, women shaping our lives still
are a big deal. Men, can you imagine your life without women? Women, can you imagine your life
without other women? American women have come a long way in 90 years and society is the better
for it. Women vote in greater numbers than men and have for years, nationally and in Illinois. They
very well can and should vote, write laws, lead and play even more influential roles in what the next
90 years, and beyond, may bring us all.
---

Confirmed for 8am tomorrow morning
---

sbwhoeop
Thursday, August 26, 2010 9:05 AM
In case you missed, and see last graph. Sid
H: In Case you missed this, by the FT international affairs editor, esp the last graph. Sid
Financial Times FT.corn
A poisoned process holds little hope
By David Gardner
Published: August 25 2010 22:46 1 Last updated: August 25 2010 22:46
„
As the caravans of Middle East peace negotiators rumble into Washington next week for the umpteenth time, the
pervasive cynicism and sense of deja vu all over again is overwhelming — and with good reason.
The Middle East peace process long ago turned into a tortured charade of pure process while events on the ground — in
particular the relentless and strategic Israeli colonisation of occupied Palestinian land — pull in the opposite direction to
peace. "We have all been colluding in a gigantic confidence trick," is how one Arab minister puts it, "and here we go
again."
While many factors had combined to hand veto powers to rejectionists on both sides, the heart of the question remains
the continuing Israeli occupation. It is essential to remember that the biggest single increase of Jewish settlers on Arab
and — a 50 per cent rise — took place in 1992-96 under the governments of peace-makers Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon
Peres at.the high-water mark of the Oslo peace accords. Many Israelis will point to the perfidy of the late Yassir Arafat,
who wanted to talk peace but keep the option of armed resistance dangerously in play. But what killed Oslo was the
occupation. The second intifada that erupted a decade ago was essentially the Oslo war.
A decade on, the Israeli settlement enterprise has turned the occupied West Bank into a discontiguous scattering of
cantons, walled in by a security barrier built on yet more annexed Arab land and criss-crossed by segregated Israeli roads
linking the settlements. Last month, B'Tselem, the Israeli human rights group, published a study showing Israel has now
taken 42 per cent of the West Bank, with 300,000 settlers there and another 200,000 in East Jerusalem. The siege of
Gaza has turned that sliver of land into a vast, open-air prison.
The main feature of the present situationi is the disconnect between the high politics of the utterly discredited peace
process and these — in Israeli parlance — "facts on the ground".
At last month's White House summit, where Barack Obama and Benjamin Netanyahu massaged their long estrangement
into a political armistice, the US president praised the Israeli prime minister as a leader "willing to take risks for peace".
But there is no evidence for this whatsoever. True, in June last year, in response to Mr Obama's Cairo speech denying
any legitimacy to Israel's settlements, Mr Netanyahu forced himself to utter the words "Palestinian state" — but he
surrounded them with barbed-wire caveats that voided them of meaning.
Indeed, the words all sides use — peace, resolution, security, and so on — may be the same; but what each side means by
them is different.
The mainstream Palestinian leaders, President Mahmoud Abbas and Salem Fayyad, the prime minister, and the Quartet
made up of the US, the European Union, the UN and Russia, talk of a negotiated resolution. This means two states living
in peace and security, and a Palestinian homeland on the 22 per cent of Mandate Palestine taken by Israel in the 1967
Arab-Israeli war. East Jerusalem would serve as the capital of the West Bank and Gaza, with marginal land swaps to
preserve some Israeli settlements near Jerusalem. But what does Mr Netanyahu mean?
He has been most clear on what he does not mean. For a start, he has set his face against any concessions on
Jerusalem. He wants to keep most settlements except for the far-flung "ideological" ones and the 100-plus "outposts"
established as pawns to be traded once the chess game began. His idea of a demilitarised Palestinian state is more like a
sort of supra-municipal administration than a self-determined, independent government.
Will he surprise us, on the hackneyed Nixon and China principle that holds it is politicians of the right who most easily
close difficult deals? There is little to suggest that:
The thinking of Mr Netanyahu, son of a celebrated promoter of Greater Israel, has always been profoundly irredentist.
While his nationalist Likud faces the constraints of being in coalition with an assortment of ultra-rightist and ultra-orthodox
parties as well as Labour, that was plainly his choice; the centrist Kadima party was (and remains) an alternative. To be
fair, Israel's electoral system — with a low threshold for entry into the Knesset that makes multi-party coalitions inevitable —
means lobbies such as the settlers can take the national interest hostage. But Mr Netanyahu magnifies this by his choice
of partners and by diligently firing up the ultra-hawks in the pro-Israel lobby in the US.
As risks he. has taken for peace, Exhibit A is the much-hyped moratorium on settlement-building, which expires next
month and has, in any case, been speciously interpreted. While the bulldozers to build settlements have been idling,
moreover, the bulldozers demolishing Palestinian homes have been roaring: the rate of demolition in and around
Jerusalem has doubled this year, while the army has just razed the village of al-Farisiye in the Jordan Valley, in line with
Mr Netanyahu's strategically obsolete obsession with keeping the valley as Israel's eastern border.
As diplomacy struggles to keep alive the viability of a two-state solution, three rival systems of control have crystallised in
the occupied territories that would make up a future Palestinian homeland: the settlements; the crimped Palestinian
Authority of Mr Abbas and Mr Fayyad; and then Hamas, which Israel and its Arab and western allies have tried and failed
to marginalise. Time is short for a negotiated outcome; it may even have run out.
The outlines of a deal are clear, in the (Bill) Clinton parameters of 2000 and Arab Peace initiative of 2002, endorsed by 22
Arab and 57 Muslim countries (as well as Hamas, as part of the 2007 Mecca accord). There has to be an end to the
occupation, and the US and Quartet cannot just allude to this; they must demand it.
The writer is international affairs editor
"FT" and "Financial Times" are trademarks of the Financial Times. Prjyacy pplicyI Terris
© Copyright The Financial Times, Ltd 2010.
---

III let lauren handle
Ops can schedule menendez to lock in
---

Maybe. And, of course, worth the effort. Without an effort, the two state solution is dead; if failed, on the other hand, also
dead. Another idea, don't know if it can be made to work: How to introduce Israel entering the NPT and ending its nuclear
ambiguity, which is its state policy, but which itself is the model for Iran now. Can this issue be used profitably in
negotiations, a wild card, as it were? Can options be developed on whether it can, how it might work, potential effect on
peace process? Israel's nuclear ambiguity policy is certainly a big issue coming given Iran. See below from Haaretz today:
• Home
• Print Edition
• Nt-
-
3ws
• Published 00:56 26.08.10
• Latest update 00:56 26.08.10
Interview / Why Israel should end its policy of
nuclear ambiguity
An interview with Avner Cohen, expert on nonproliferation
issues and author of the forthcoming book "The Worst-Kept
Secret: Israel's Bargain with the Bomb."
By Nia.
tasha Mozwvava Tags: Israel news
Avner Cohen is a senior fellow of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of
International Studies. He is the author of "Israel and the Bomb" and the forthcoming "The Worst-Kept Secret: Israel's
Bargain with the Bomb."
Avner Cohen, you claim that the time has come for Israel to abandon its policy of nuclear ambiguity. Why now,
and why would that be good for Israel?
"Nuclear ambiguity is a cornerstone of Israeli strategic thinking. It was born many years ago, and sealed as part of a
comprehensive deal with the United States in 1969. It was appropriate at the time, but today. in my opinion, it is not just
anachronistic, but foolish and anti-democratic. Even in realpolitik terms, it is an 'own goal' for Israel. In my view, it
undermines genuine Israeli interests, including the need to gain recognition and legitimacy and to be counted among the
responsible states in this strategic field."
Are you sure the pressure on Israel is so severe? If Israel is criticized over its nuclear program, its usually
marginal. The brunt of the criticism is over its treatment of the Palestinians. •
"Israel received tacit consent for its nuclear program from the Western world because it appeared to be a small, just state'
surrounded by enemies, and the memory of the Holocaust was still fresh. Israel's image was different then.
"In the long term, the more Israel appears to reject peace and to be the one that opposes a two-state solution, the more it
will be perceived as a regional bully that possesses nuclear weapons. So the world will be a lot less forgiving on the
nuclear issue. The situation of ambiguity, in which you don't have real legitimacy, is not a good place to be."
The United States has called on Israel to join the nonproliferation treaty, but during Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu's visit to Washington, U.S. President Barack Obama said he recognizes the special nature of the
threats Israel faces, and these threats warrant special security measures.
The Americans want to appear just and fair because the issue is seen in Israel as completely sacred. They want to look
as though they respect that. This agreement [with the U.S.] has been passed along from president to president, but I don't
believe this issue is as sacred to Americans as it is to Israelis."
Do you give credence to the slippery slope theory, under which abandoning ambiguity would lead to demands
that Israel disarm?
"Those are cliches used by the defense establishment. Nobody 'demands that Israel make such an announcement without
first doing the preparatory work among its allies and the Arab states. This great fear of a slippery slope is ridiculous. Israel
has its own interests; nobody can coerce it to do things."
What about the claim that ambiguity is what keeps the Arab states from feeling a need to launch an arms race
against Israel?
"I don't dismiss that claim out of hand, and if, after study and thought, this fear turns out to be warranted, I would be
prepared to wait. But in some ways, ambiguity is insulting to the Arabs. The claim you mention treats Arabs as though
they were children: If they are told that Israel doesn't admit to it, that frees them of the need to deal with the reality. I
believe the Arab countries don't want to play a game of make-believe, but rather want to discuss the topic directly and
realistically."
You say, basically, that Iran is imitating Israel's nuclear behavior. That comparison would certainly rankle Israel
supporters.
"But the way Iran has advanced toward nuclear capability is not via announcements and tests, but rather by rumors. It can
even remain within the bounds of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. If that rankles anybody, let it rankle.
"If Iran is not attacked, it will want to achieve a status of ambiguity; I see this as nearly certain. The international
community thus has another reason not to accept the idea of ambiguity as legitimate. The norm that a state with a nuclear
weapon must say so clearly is part of the nonproliferation regime. The longer Iran continues down this path, the less
patience the world will have for Israel."
How do you envision the scenario of 'coming out of the nuclear closet?'
"Censorship plays a very central role in the enforcement of nuclear ambiguity. So long as there is a [military] censor, it is
very hard to alter ambiguity. If censorship didn't exist, israeli newspapers would be able to write about the subject more
openly.
"Another issue is the need for a law that addresses the nuclear topic. There is a Shin Bet [security service] law, but there
is no law for the Mossad and no law for the Israel Atomic Energy Commission. This is a very problematic situation.
"On the international level, it's a sensitive subject that demands preparatory work. Ultimately, I see a political statement by
Israel's government in which the prime minister would find the right way to put this subject on the table. He would talk
about the historical background and the responsible way Israel has dealt with this topic. With a few rare exceptions, these
weapons have no military use; Israel views them as a means of deterrence. I don't think Israel would need to go into detail
regarding how many [bombs] it has or exactly what it has.
"Israel has a right to the bomb no less than New Delhi, or even the United States. Ambiguity creates a sense that we are
sinners, as though we had done something so terrible that we can't tell the awful truth - and I don't think it is so awful. This
is a country that the world has viewed as a nuclear state for a long time, and the time has come for it to say something
positive on this huge, complicated and awe-inspiring topic...
"All these states are ultimately committed under the treaty they signed to achieve a world without nuclear weapons.
Whether that will happen in our lifetimes I can't say."
You say ambiguity undermines Israeli democracy and prevents debate on matters of life and death, such as the
question of whose finger will be on the button. Do you think the Israeli public is ready for such a discussion?
"There has been very little creative thinking in this area, and ambiguity is one of the stifling factors that have produced an
unacceptable, closed culture incapable of creative thinking. Ambiguity's power derives from the fact that Israeli society
accepts it, and it seems to the public that any attempt to deviate from it would cause serious damage to Israeli security.
"Ambiguity has created a public incapable of dealing with the topic, one that is afraid of it and prefers the issue to be
handled by 'trustworthy hands' so that it does not have to take responsibility itself.
Ambiguity has created an ignorant, craven public.which, in a certain sense, has betrayed its civic, democratic duties on
this subject."
What's it like researching a topic nobody discusses?
"When I started studying this subject 25 years ago, I had the feeling I was entering a palace where nothing could be
touched. It took me years to find the right way to handle the topic responsibly - from a researcher's perspective, not from
the standpoint of someone who is directly involved in the matter.
Today I think it is possible to initiate a meaningful dialogue about concrete, real issues."
• Print Page
• Send to a friend.
• Comments
• Share
• Text Size -1-1:
• Follow us on Twitter
• Become a Haaretz.com Faceboolr friend
This story is by:
• atasha Mozoovaya
---

Ok will work on those and get back to you asap
---

Martin Indyk is free for the next 40 minutes. I can connect him to your blackberry whenever you're ready. I'm still
working on Menendez and Wexler.
---


---

He is getting on a short flight this morning, and can do anytime between 1:30-5:30 PM this afternoon. Let me know if
you'd like me to set a time.
---

He prefers 2:00 PM. I have locked it in and will connect to you at that time.
Will report back to you soon on the other two.
---

Robert Wexler can do 1:30 PM ET. (He is currently on the west coast).
Good for you? Then lndyk at 2PM.
Still no word back from Menendez, but we are still trying.
---

Great, I will connect them to your blackberry at those times.
---

Okay, in that same 1:30-2:30 window? Or now?
---

Will do.
---

Will do
---

Coming up in 10 minutes:
Wexler at 1:30 PM
Indyk at 2:00 PM
###
---

Menendez's staff has finally gotten back to us. They cay he can do a call between 5:00 — 5:30 PM today or after 7:00 PM
today.
Lauren
---

MS:
Blair is available tmw (Friday, 8/27) between 11AM and 12 Noon, or Saturday morning.
Lauren
---

MS — I've heard back from Armitage and Wexler offices. Here are all of your pending calls in one e-mail:
-Tony Blair: asking to speak with you btw 11AM-12 Noon tomorrow (Friday), or sometime Saturday morning.
- Fmr. Dep. Sec Armitage: Available at 3:15 PM today or 12 noon tomorrow (Friday).
- Menenedez: Available between 5-5:30 PM today, or after 7:00 PM today.
- Robert Wexler: Available anytime after 4:30 PM today, or anytime tomorrow.
Just let me know if you would like for me to lock anything in.
###
---

Some more classified papers coming to house at 6pm:
- one re karzai
Update about an AmCit in Somalia
David Hale readout of a meeting
Barak/Abbas on Sunday
---

Here's the list of deep dives we were thinking of doing in the next few months:
Sept: Indonesia (pre-Comprehensive Ptshp Dialogue), Russia (pre-NRC)
October: India (pre-POTUS trip), Balkans (pre-your potential trip to the Balkans)
November: Central Asia (pre-your trip)
And then other deep dives for the future (or whenever it might be timely):
Iran (pre-P5+1?)
Egypt
Turkey/Cyprus
Mexico
Brazil
---

Lois Quam
Thursday, August 26, 2010 4:45 PM
Great to talk with you today and will follow up right after Labor Day.
Yours, Lois
---


---

Wexler coming up at 630 pm, menendez at 7pm. Ops will connect them to you.
###
---

The team believes that some high level strategic targeted Hill calls are needed to explain our position on the settlement
moratorium extension. The thought was:
S calls to Kerry, Berman, Lowey, Feinstein;
Mitchell calls to Levin, Lugar, Leahy.
We would get points to you tomorrow, for calls over the weekend if possible, or Monday.
Does this work?
---


---

http://www.brookings.edu/—/media/Files/rc/reports/2010/08_arab_opinion_poll_telhami/08_arab_opinion_pollielhami.pdf
---

Samuel Berger
Thursday, August 26, 2010 10:08 PM
RE: Can we schedule call over the weekend?
I am around Fri-Sun. •Leave on Monday.
Best numbers: w)202-637-5698
---

We can follow up on both.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
---

Matthew doyle gave heads up that blair wants to talk about meeting with you separately before the sept 1 dinner.
---

Coming up at 800am. Ops will connect it to you.
###
---

Importance: High
Ms- mashabane just cancelled the 8am call this morning. We're waiting for them to call back and propose a new time.
###
---

Tomorrow will give you a cleaner version, but you could get the current draft this morning if today is better for you
work-wise.
---

Lissa is out for most of day. There is a complete draft w/ the changes u asked for that Jake has. Lissa will write through
this draft for a good line edit tonight, so it will be smoother tmw. Just let us know what u wd prefer. AM
---

I gave AMS a revised draft yesterday morning and I just got it back with her retooled diplomatic section. She has asked
for some more fact-checking to be done today. Hopefully she didn't re-write too much. I will know more when I work on
it more closely this afternoon.
---

Info on eric john that u asked for:
Ops is in contact with Eric, and has passed to him a message that the Secretary has
been informed and would be available to speak with him at an appropriate moment.
---

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Friday, August 27, 2010 10:25 AM
Re: Eric john
---

I did not mean to make it seem as if Lissa is holding this up in any way — she and I have tag teamed
pretty much around the clock all week and she has been making time amid an enormous array of
important family obligations that she had set up on the assumption that she would have handed off
to Josh Daniel by now. As you know, she is indispensable. AM
Anne-Mane Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
---

Talks.doc
I have not been able to get a psychology dinner set up, but I have found the article that you read on
the difference an apology can make in the Middle East (coming in next email) and commissioned a
useful paper from Louise Diamond, an expert on psychology and negotiations who has done a lot
of work between the Israels and the Palestinians herself (attached). It's about 5 pages; I really think
it is worth a read. Finally, on changing the frame to look forward, I strongly recommend that you
spend 8 minutes to look at a video produced by a Rand study called The Arc, which proposes a
high-speed road/rail project connecting the key cities in the West Bank and Gaza. It is a powerful,
powerful vision of what could be, one that will play right into Bibi's emphasis on economic growth.
For my money, it would be worth a private 8 minutes screening. I will send the link in the next
email.
AM
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
---


---

Here is the link to the video of The Arc. http://friendsofthearc.ore, a national infrastructure trunkline for a future
Palestinian State developed by the RAND Corporation. It is only 8 minutes long, but a great overview of the Arc vision
and its potential for enabling peace in the region. I promise you it is worth it. It has tested very well with both
Palestinians, Israelis and American Jews and Palestinians. It is a genuinely a transformational idea that did not originate
from American politicians or diplomats, but rather from innovative American minds in collaboration with stakeholders
from all walks of life in Palestine, Israel, the US, Europe, and the Muslim world. And it could be largely financed with
private finance.
AM
---


---


---

Ops alert re flotilla:
Mariam Gaza flotilla update #2 for 8/21: No departure on August 21 or 22
No Activity in Tripoli Port
(SBU) On Saturday, August 21, at 1620 hours Embassy investigators reported that both the
Mariam (formerly the Jounieh Star) and the Julia (aka the Naji al-Ali) remain in their same positions in the Lebanese port
of Tripoli without any signs of activity. The investigators added that there was no elevated security presence at the port
and no press was present. The team will return to Tripoli on Sunday, August 22, and we will provide further reports, as
appropriate.
GOL Says Ship Will Not Sail Before Monday
(SBU)
on either August 21 or 22, although
assured the RSO that the Mariam will not depart B6
declined to provide additional information.
Flotilla Organizer Claims Ship Will Not Sail Directly to Gaza
(U) Coordinator of the Mariam's efforts, Samar al-Hajj, told the LBC television channel on Saturday that contacts are
ongoing with countries near Gaza in order to acquire permission for the ship to dock at one of their ports. She
complained, "It seems as if there is universal war against us....We will not allow anyone to cancel the ship's trip." She
added that the ship will not head to Gaza directly from Tripoli, stressing, "The ship cannot be the reason for the start of a
war."
---

Enjoy the beach, and all best.
B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
on: 08/21/2020
---

I had a good discussion with Jake and AMS last night and we all agree that the most recent draft helped us crystallize
what the main point actually is (and isn't). So I am re-working the intro to focus more directly on the intersection of
diplomacy and development as the basis for the QDDR. I think it's working well. AMS is emphatic about re- doing the
diplomacy section along these lines, so I hope to get her stuff this afternoon (I will probably need to polish it up). And I
am re-tooling the other buckets to fit into this better and tighter frame. Jake suggests we get it to you tomorrow if that's
okay. And thanks for the good wishes to Max!
On Aug 21, 2010, at 11:32 AM, H wrote:
> Whenever you think it's ready, send it to Huma for printing for me.
> Thx so much and good luck to Max!
>
---


---

Great. Thanks. Will give you a heads up when am sending to Huma.
On Aug 21, 2010, at 12:17 PM, H wrote:
> That's ok.
---


---


---

Will do.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
---

Here is the latest from Lissa, Jake, and me (I took over from Lissa this morning because her son is winning all his soccer
matches somewhere.in Pennsylvania). We still have a bunch of things to add (as you will see in yellow), but this is
definitely ready for you to engage. I think it will make a real impact, and it fits Jim Hoge's desire not just to make this a
report card on the QDDR but to advance some bigger animating ideas.
Some questions:
I hope this is a read that improves your vacation mood rather than detracting from it!
AM
---

Here is the latest from Lissa, Jake, and me (I took over from Lissa this morning because her son is winning all his soccer
matches somewhere in Pennsylvania). We still have a bunch of things to add (as you will see in yellow), but this is
definitely ready for you to engage. I think it will make a real impact, and it fits Jim Hoge's desire not just to make this a
report card on the QDDR but to advance some bigger animating ideas.
Some questions:
I hope this is a read that improves your vacation mood rather than detracting from it!
AM
---


---


---

Please Pass to the Secretary
Madame Secretary,
A shoot out occurred on August 20 in front of the American School in Monterrey (AFSM), resulting in the death of two
bodyguards. An investigation is continuing into the details, but our understanding at this point is that it was an
attempted kidnapping targeting the relatives of a local business executive. While it does not appear that U.S. families
were targeted, the sharp increase in kidnapping incidents in the Monterrey area, and this event in particular, present a
very high risk to the families of U.S. citizens who might be become incidental victims.
U.S. security and law enforcement personnel have engaged local and federal security officials to seek their help on
understanding the immediate risks and measures that can be taken. I have urged U.S. families at the Consulate in
Monterrey not to send their children to school in the coming days while we review the events that took place on August
20. We also are advising U.S. citizens in the area that we have urged Consulate personnel not to send their children to
school while we complete this security review.
I am sure that the warden notice will lead to a rash of press reports on U.S. concerns about security in Monterrey. More
broadly, if the government cannot get the kidnappings in Monterrey under control, that may affect our ability to
function in Monterrey. I have advised Secretary Espinosa of this, and have sought her help as well to address consulate
security.
Consulate personnel are currently on "authorized departure" and have the option to send their families to a U.S.
location. Pat Kennedy is in close touch on these matters.
Carlos Pascual
---

See below.
No update yet - John is out and have not connected with Jack but will early am.
cdm
---

Back in today to start working on the details for sept 1 - pls let me know of any specifics you want to make sure are
executed.
Enjoy your rest.
---


---

We are expecting comments back from the larger group this afternoon and will begin to incorporate them this evening.
The draft needs polishing, as you can see. Will you be sending your own comments or waiting for the next draft? Thx.
---

Lissa Muscatine <
Monday, August 23, 2010 9:25 AM
Re: Foreign Affairs
Any time between about 1 and 4 would be best if that works for you.
The draft as it stands now is a conglomeration of points from AMS, Jake, and me, but I wasn't able to write through the
whole thing before you got it.
On Aug 23, 2010, at 9:22 AM, H wrote:
> I would like to call you later today. What times work for you after
> noon?
>
---

Ok
---

Good morning,
1. Cheryl is trying to reach you to follow-up on your weekend conversation.
2. She's been w/o a computer all morning because hers malfunctioned and POEMS is still working to fix it.
3. President Carter called and spoke with Cheryl this am. He asks to speak with you directly about his trips. Home
#:
Joanne Laszczych
Assistant to Counselor and Chief of Staff, Cheryl Mills
Department of State
2201 C Street, N.W.
Phone: 202-647-5548
Fax: 202-736-4535
---

Apologies - she is with Daniel Yohannes and asked to call you back in 10 minutes
Joanne
---

Cheryl says you can return the call. Not necessary to speak w/her beforehand
Joanne
---

Gave info to Ops and they are placing the calls
Joanne
---

sbwhoeop
Monday, August 23, 2010 10:06 AM
H: Yes, there is a vast right wing conspiracy. Sid
B6
A must read piece that looks at the Koch brothers control and funding of the tea party and right wing.
http://www.nowyorkenconlirep2rtin08130/100830fa fpct maysl2pitatIbie=true#IxzzoxQ
uvTcbT
A REPORTER AT 1.ARGE
COVERT OPERATIONS
The billionaire brothers who are waging a war against Obama.
by Jane Mayetmo,
(.s..
David H. Koch in 1996. He and his brother Charles are lifelong libertarians and have quietly given more than a hundred million
dollars to right-wing causes.
On May 17th, a black-tie audience at the Metropolitan Opera House applauded as a tall, jovial-looking billionaire tOok the
stage. It was the seventieth annual spring gala of American Ballet Theatre, and David H. Koch was being celebrated for his
generosity as a member of the board of trustees; he had recently donated $2.5 million toward the company's upcoming season,
and had given many millions before that. Koch received an award while flanked by two of the gala's co-chairs, Blaine Trump,
in a peach-colored gown, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, in emerald green. Kennedy's mother, Jacqueline Kennedy
Onassis, had been a patron of the ballet and, coincidentally, the previous owner of a Fifth Avenue apartment that Koch had
bought, in 1995, and then sold, eleven years later, for thirty-two million dollars, having found it too small.
The gala marked the social ascent of Koch, who, at the age of seventy, has become one of the city's most prominent
philanthropists. In 2008, he donated a hundred million dollars to modernize. Lincoln Center's New York State Theatre building,
which now bears his name. He has given twenty million to the American Museum of Natural History, whose dinosaur wing is
named for him. This spring, after noticing the decrepit state of the fountains outside the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Koch
pledged at least ten million dollars for their renovation. He is a trustee of the museum, perhaps the most coveted social prize in
the city, and serves on the board of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, where, after he donated more than forty million
dollars, an endowed chair and a research center were named for him.
One dignitary was conspicuously absent from the gala: the event's third honorary co-chair, Michelle Obama. Her office
said that a scheduling conflict had prevented her from attending. Yet had the First Lady shared the stage with Koch it might
have created an awkward tableau. In Washington, Koch is best known as part of a family that has repeatedly funded stealth
attacks on the federal government, and on the Obama Administration in particular.
With his brother Charles, who is seventy-four, David Koch owns virtually all of Koch Industries, a conglomerate,
headquartered in Wichita. Kansas, whose annual revenues are estimated to be a hundred billion dollars. The company has
grown spectacularly since their father, Fred, died, in 1967, and the brothers took charge. The Kochs operate oil refineries in
Alaska, Texas, and Minnesota, and control some four thousand miles of pipeline. Koch Industries owns Brawny paper towels,
Dixie. cups, Georgia-Pacific lumber, Staimnaster carpet, and Lycra, among other products. Forbes ranks it as the second-largest
private company in the country, after Cargill, and its consistent profitability has made David and Charles Koch—who, years
ago, bought out two other brothers—among the richest Men in America. Their combined fortune of thirty-five billion dollars is
exceeded only by those of Bill Gates and Warren Buffett.
The Kochs are longtime libertarians who believe in drastically lower personal and corporate taxes, minimal social services
for the needy, and much less oversight of industry—especially environmental regulation. These views dovetail with the
brothers' corporate interests. In a study released this spring, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst's Political Economy
Research Institute named Koch Industries one of the top ten air polluters in the United States.- And Greenpeace issued a report
identifying the company as a "kingpin of climate science denial." The report showed that, from 2005 to 2008, the Kochs vastly
outdid ExxonMobil in giving money to organizations fighting legislation related to climate change, unclerwriting'a huge
network of foundations, think tanks, and political front groups. Indeed, the brothers have funded opposition campaigns against
so many Obama Administration policies—from health-care reform to the economic-stimulus program----that, in political circles,
their ideological network is known as the Kochtopus.
In a statement, Koch Industries said that the Greenpeace report "distorts the environmental record of our companies." And. .
David Koch, in a recent, admiring article about him in New York, protested that the "radical press" had turned his family into
"whipping boys," and had exaggerated its influence on American politics. But Charles Lewis, the founder of the Center for
Public Integrity, a nonpartisan watchdog group, said, "The Kochs are on a whole different level. There's no one else who has
spent this much money. The sheer dimension of it is what sets them apart. They have a pattern of lawbreaking, political
manipulation, and obfuscation. I've been in Washington since Watergate, and I've never seen anything like it. They are the
Standard Oil of our times."
few weeks after the Lincoln Center gala, the advocacy wing of the Americans for Prosperity Foundation—an organization that
David Koch started, in 2004—held a different kind of gathering. Over the July 4th weekend, a summit called Texas Defending
the American Dream took place in a chilly hotel ballroom in Austin. Though Koch freely promotes his philanthropic ventures,
lie did not attend the summit, and his name was not in evidence. And on this occasion the audience was roused not by a,dance
performance but by a series of speakers denouncing President Barack Obama. Peggy Venable, the organizer of the summit,
warned that Administration officials "have a socialist visiOn for this country."
Five hundred people attended the summit, which served, in part, as a training session for Tea Party activists in Texas. An
advertisement cast the event as a populist uprising against vested corporate power. "Today, the voices of average Americans are
being drowned out by lobbyists and special interests," it said. "But you can do something about it." The pitch made no mention
of its corporate funders. The White House has expressed frustration that such sponsors have largely eluded public notice. David .
Axelrod, Obama's senior adviser, said, "What they don't say is that, in part, this is a grassroots citizens' movement brought to
you by a bunch of oil billionaires."
In April, 2009, Melissa Cohlmia, a company spokesperson; denied that the Kochs had direct links to the Tea Party, saying
that Americans for Prosperity is "an independent organization and Koch companies do not in any way direct their activities."
.Later, she issued a statement: "No funding has been provided by Koch companies, the Koch foundations, or Charles Koch or
David Koch specifically to support the tea parties." David Koch told New York, "I've never been to a tea-party event. No one
representing the tea party has ever even approached me."
At the lectern in Austin, however, Venable—a longtime political operative who draws a salary from Americans for
Prosperity, and who has worked for Koch-funded political groups since 1994—spoke less warily: "We love what the Tea
Parties are doing, because that's how we're going to take back America!" she declared, as the crowd cheered. In a subsequent
interview, she described herself as an early member of the movement, joking, "I was part of the Tea Party before it was cool!"
She explained that the role of Americans for Prosperity was to help "educate" Tea Party activists on policy details, and to give
them "next-step training" after their rallies, so that their political energy could be channelled "more effectively." And she noted
that Americans for Prosperity had provided Tea Party activists with lists of elected officials to target. She said of the Kochs.
"They're certainly our people. David's the chairman of our board. I've certainly met with them, and I'm very appreciative Of
what they do."
Venable honored several Tea Party "citizen leaders" at the summit. The Texas branch of Americans for Prosperity gave its
Blogger of the Year Award to a young woman named Sibyl West. On June 14th, West, writing on her site, described Obama as
the "cokehead in chief." In an online thread, West speculated that the President was exhibiting symptoms of "demonic
possession (aka schizophrenia, etc.)." The summit featured several paid speakers, including Janine Turner, the actress best
known for her role on the television series "Northern Exposure." She declared, "They don't want our children to know about
their rights. They don't want our children to know about a God!"
During a catered lunch, Venable introduced Ted Cruz, a former solicitor general of Texas, who told the crowd that Obama
was "the most radical President ever to occupy the Oval Office," and had hidden from voters a secret agenda—"the government
taking over our economy and our lives." Countering Obama, Cruz proclaimed, was the epic fight of our generation!" As the
crowd rose to its feet and cheered, he quoted the defiant words of a Texan at the Alamo: "Victory, or death!"
Americans for Prosperity has worked closely with the Tea Party since the movement's inception. In the weeks before the
first Tax Day protests, in April, 2009, Americans for Prosperity hosted a Web site offering supporters "Tea Party Talking
Points." The Arizona branch urged people to send tea bags to Obama; the Missouri branch urged members to sign up for
"Taxpayer Tea Party Registration" and provided directions to nine protests. The group continues to stoke the rebellion. The
North Carolina branch recently launched a "Tea Party Finder" Web site, advertised as "a hub for all the Tea Parties in North
Carolina."
The anti-government fervor infusing the 2010 elections represents a political triumph for the Kochs. By giving money to
"educate," fund, and organize Tea Party protesters, they have helped turn their private agenda into a mass movement. Bruce
Bartlett, a conservative economist and a historian, who once worked at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a Dallas-based
think tank that the Kochs fund, said, "The problem with the whole libertarian movement is that it's been all chiefs and no
Indians. There haven't been any actual people, like voters, who give a crap about it. So the problem for the Kochs has been
trying to create a movement." With the emergence of the Tea Party, he said, "everyone suddenly sees that for the first time there
are Indians out there—people who can provide real ideological power." The Kochs, he said, are "trying to shape and control and
channel the populist uprising into their own policies."-
A Republican campaign consultant who has done research on behalf of Charles and David Koch said of the Tea Party, "The
Koch brothers gave the money that founded it. It's like they put the seeds in the ground. Then the rainstorm comes, and the
frogs come out of the mud—and they're our candidates!"
The Kochs and their political operatives declined requests for interviews. Instead, a prominent New York public-relations
executive who is close with the Kochs put forward two friends: George Pataki, the former governor of New York, and Mortimer
Zuckerman, the publisher and real-estate magnate. Pataki, a Republican who received campaign donations from David Koch,
called him "a patriot who cares deeply about his country." Zuckerman praised David's "gentle decency" and the "range of his
public interests."
The Republican campaign consultant said of the family's political activities, "To call them under the radar is an
understatement. They are underground!" Another former Koch adviser said, "They're smart. This right-wing, redneck stuff
works for them. They see this as a way to get things done without getting dirty themselves." Rob Stein, a Democratic political
strategist who has studied the conservative movement's finances, said that the Kochs are "at the epicenter of the anti-Obama
movement. But it's not just about Obama. They would have done the same to Hillary Clinton. They did the same with Bill •
Clinton. They are out to destroy progressivism."
ddly enough, the fiercely capitalist Koch family owes part of its fortune to Joseph Stalin. Fred Koch was the son of a Dutch
printer who settled in Texas and ran a weekly newspaper. Fred attended M.I.T., where he earned a degree in chemical
engineering. In 1927, he invented a more efficient process for converting oil into gasoline; but, according to family lore,
America's major oil companies regarded him as a threat and shut him out of the industry. Unable to succeed at home, Koch
found work in the Soviet Union. In the nineteen-thirties, his company trained Bolshevik engineers and helped Stalin's regime
set up fifteen modern oil refineries. Over time, however, Stalin brutally purged several of Koch's Soviet colleagues. Koch was
deeply affected by the experience, and regretted his collaboration. He returned to the U.S. In the headquarters of his company,
Rock Island Oil & Refining, in Wichita, he kept photographs aimed at proving that some of those Soviet refineries had been
destroyed in the Second World War. Gus diZerega, a former friend of Charles Koch, recalled, "As the Soviets became a
stronger military power, Fred felt a certain amount of guilt at having helped build them up. I think it bothered him a lot."
In 1958, Fred Koch became one of the original members of the john Birch Society, the arch-conservative group known, in
part, for a highly skeptical view of governance and for spreading fears of a Communist takeover. Members considered President
Dwight D. Eisenhower to be a Communist agent. In a self-published broadside, Koch claimed that the Communists have
infiltrated both the Democrat and Republican Parties." He wrote admiringly of Benito Mussolini's suppression of Communists
in Italy, and disparagingly of the American civil-rights movement. "The colored man looms large in the Communist plan to take
over America," he warned. Welfare was a secret plot to attract rural blacks to cities, where they would foment "a vicious race
war." In a 1963 speech that prefigures the Tea Party's talk of a secret 'socialist plot, Koch predicted that Communists would
"infiltrate the highest offices of government in the U.S. until the President is a Communist, unknown to the rest of us."
Koch married Mary Robinson, the daughter of a Missouri physician, and they had four sons: Freddie, Charles, and twins,
David and William. John Damgard, the president of the Futures Industry Association, was David's schoolmate and friend. He
recalled that Fred Koch was "a real John Wayne type." Koch emphasized rugged pursuits, taking his sons big-game hunting in
Africa, and requiring them to do farm labor at the family ranch. The Kochs lived in a stone mansion on a large compound across
from Wichita's country club; in the summer, the boys could hear their friends splashing in the pool, but they were not allowed
to join them. "By instilling a work ethie in me at an early age, my father did me a big favor, although it didn't seem like a favor
back then," Charles has written. "By the time I was eight, he made sure work occupied most of my spare time." David Koch
recalled that his father also indoctrinated the boys politically. "He was constantly speaking to us children about what was wrong
with government," he told Brian Doherty, an editor of the libertarian magazine Reason, and the author of "Radicals for
Capitalism," a 2007 history of the libertarian movement. "It's something I grew up with—a fundamental point of view that big
government was bad, and imposition of government controls on our lives and economic fortunes was not good."
David attended Deerfield Academy, in Massachusetts, and Charles was sent to military school. Charles, David, and William
all earned engineering degrees at their father's alma mater, M.I.T., and later joined the family company. Charles eventually
assumed control, with David as his deputy; William's career at the company was less successful. Freddie went to Harvard and
studied playwriting at the Yale School of Drama. His father reportedly disapproved of him, and punished him financially.
(Freddie, through a spokesperson, denied this:)
In 1967, after Fred Koch died, of a heart attack, Charles renamed the business Koch Industries, in honor of his father. Fred
Koch's will made his sons extraordinarily wealthy. David Koch joked about his good fortune in a 2003 speech to alumni at
Deerfield, where, after pledging twenty-five million dollars, he was made the school's sole "lifetime trustee." He said, "You
might ask: How does David Koch happen to have the wealth to be so generous? Well, let me tell you a story. It all started when
I was alittle boy. One day, my father gave me an apple. I soon sold it for five dollars and bought two apples and sold them for
ten. Then I bought four apples and sold them for twenty. Well, this went on day after day, week after week, month after month,
year after year, until my father died and left me three hundred million dollars!"
David and Charles had absorbed their father's conservative politics, but they did not share all his views, according to
diZerega, who befriended Charles in the mid-sixties, after meeting him while browsing in a John Birch Society bookstore in
Wichita. Charles eventually invited him to the Kochs' mansion, to participate in an informal political-discussion group. "It was
pretty clear that Charles thought some of the Birch Society was bullshit," diZerega recalled.
DiZerega, who has lost touch with Charles, eventually abandOned right-wing views, and became a political-science
professor. He credits Charles with opening his mind to political philosophy, which set him on the path to academia; Charles is
one of three people to whom he dedicated his first book. But diZerega believes that the Koch brothers have followed a wayward
intellectual trajectory, transferring their father's paranoia about Soviet Communism to a distrust of the U.S. government, and
seeing its expansion, beginning with the New Deal, as a tyrannical threat to freedom. In an essay, posted on Beliefnet, diZerega
writes, "As state socialism failed ... the target for many within these organizations shifted to any kind of regulation at all.
'Socialism' kept. being defined downwards."
Members of the. John Birch Society developed.an interest in a school of Austrian economists who promoted free-market
ideals. Charles and David Koch were particularly influenced by the work of Friedrich von Hayek, the author of "The Road to
Serfdom" (1944), which argued that centralized government planning led, inexorably, to totalitarianism. Hayek'S belief in
unfettered capitalism has proved inspirational to many conservatives, and to anti-Soviet dissidents; lately, Tea Party supporters
have championed his work. In June, the talk-radio host Glenn Beck, who has supported the Tea Party rebellion, promoted "The
Road to Serfdom" on his show; the paperback soon became a No. 1 best-seller on Amazon. (Beck appears to be a fan of the
Kochs; in the midst of arecent on-air parody of Al Gore, Beck said, without explanation, "I want to thank Charles Koch for this
information." Beck declined to elaborate on the relationship.)
Charles and David also became devotees of a more radical thinker, Robert LeFevre, who favored the abolition of the state
but didn't like the label "anarchist"; he called himself an "autarchist." LeFevre liked to say that "government is a disease
masquerading as its own cure." In 1956, he opened an institution called the Freedom School, in Colorado Springs. Brian
Doherty, of Reason, told me that "LeFevre was an anarchist figure who won Charles's heart," and that the school was "a tiny
world of people who thought the New Deal was a horrible mistake." According to diZerega, Charles supported the school
financially, and even gave him money to take classes there.
Throughout the seventies, Charles and David continued to build Koch Industries. In 1980, William, with assistance from
Freddie, attempted to take over the company from Charles, who, they felt, had assumed autocratic control. In retaliation, the
company's board, which answered to Charles, fired William. ("Charles runs it all with an iron hand," Bruce Bartlett, the
economist, told me.) Lawsuits were filed, with William and Freddie on one side and Charles and David on the other. In 1983,
Charles and David bought out their brothers' share in the company for nearly a billion dollars. But the antagonism remained,
and litigation continued for seventeen more years, with the brothers hiring rival private investigators; in 1990, they walked past
one another with stony expressions at their mother's funeral. Eventually. Freddie moved to Monaco, which has no income tax.
He bought historic, estates in France. Austria, and elsewhere, filling them with art, antiques, opera scores, and literary
manuscripts. William founded his own energy company, Oxbow, and turned to yachting; he spent an estimated sixty-five
million dollars to win the America's Cup, in 1992.
With Charles as the undisputed chairman and C.E.O., Koch Industries expanded rapidly. Roger Altman, who heads the
investment-banking firm Evercore, told me that the company's performance has been "beyond phenomenal." Charles remained
in Wichita, with his wife and two children, guarding his privacy while supporting community charities. David moved to New
York City, where he is an executive vice-president of the company and the C.E.O. of its Chemical Technology Group. A
financial expert who knows Koch Industries well told me, "Charles is the company. Charles runs it." David, described by
associates as "affable" and "a bit of a lunk," enjoyed for years the life of a wealthy bachelor. He rented a yacht in the South of
France and bought a waterfront home in Southampton, where he threw parties that the Web site New York Social Diary likened
to an "East Coast version of Hugh Hefher's soirees." In 1996, he married Julia Flesher, a fashion assistant. They live in a nine-
thousand-square-foot duplex at 740 Park Avenue, with their three children. Though David's manner is more cosmopolitan, and
more genial, than that of Charles, Brian Doherty, who has interviewed both brothers, couldn't think of a single issue on which
the brothers disagreed.
As their fortunes grew, Charles and David Koch became the primary underwriters of hard-line libertarian politics in
America. Charles's goal, as Doherty described it, was to tear the government "out at the root." The brothers' first major public
step came in 1979, when Charles persuaded David, then thirty-nine, to run for public office. They had become supporters of the
Libertarian Party, and were backing its Presidential candidate, Ed Clark, who was running against Ronald Reagan from the
right. Frustrated by the legal limits on campaign donations, they contrived to place David on the ticket, in the Vice-Presidential
slot; upon becoming a candidate, he could lavish as much of his personal fortune as he wished on the campaign. The ticket's
slogan was "The Libertarian Party has only one source of funds: You." In fact, its primary source of funds was David Koch,
who spent more than two million dollars on the effort.
Many of the ideas propounded in the 1980 campaign presaged the Tea Party movement. Ed Clark told The Nation that
libertarians were getting ready to stage "a very big tea party," because people were "sick to death" of taxes. The Libertarian
Party platform called for the abolition of the F.B.I. and the C.I.A., as well as of federal regulatory agencies, such as the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Energy. The Party wanted to end Social Security, minimum-wage
laws, gun control, and all personal and corporate income taxes; it proposed the legalization of prostitution, recreational drugs,
and suicide. Government should be reduced to only one function: the protection of individual rights. William F. Buckley, Jr., a
more traditional conservative, called the movement "Anarcho-Totalitarianism."
That November, the Libertarian ticket received only one per cent of the vote. The brothers realized that their brand of
politics didn't sell at the ballot box. Charles Koch became openly scornful of conventional politics. "It tends to be a nasty,
corrupting business," he told a reporter at the time. "I'm interested in advancing libertarian ideas." According to Doherty's
book, the .Kochs came to regard elected politicians as merely "actors playing out a script." A longtime confidant of the Kochs
told Doherty that the brothers wanted to "supply the themes and words for the scripts." In order to alter the direction of
America, they had to "influence the areas where policy ideas percolate from: academia. and think tanks."
fter the 1980 election, Charles and David Koch receded from the public arena. But they poured more than a hundred million
. dollars into dozens of seemingly independent organizations. Tax records indicate that in 2008 the three main Koch family
foundations gave money.to thirty-four political and policy organizations, three of which they founded, and several of which
they direct. The Kochs and their company have given additional millions to political campaigns, advocacy groups, and
lobbyists. The family's subterranean financial role has fuelled suspicion on the left: Lee Fang, of the liberal blog ThinkProgress,
has called the Kochs the billionaires behind the hate."
Only the Kochs know precisely how much they have spent on politics. Public tax records show that between 1998 and 2008
the Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation spent more than forty-eight million dollars. The Claude R. Lambe Charitable
Foundation, which is controlled by Charles Koch and his wife, along with two company employees and an accountant, spent
more than twenty-eight million. The David H. Koch Charitable Foundation spent more than a hundred and twenty million.
Meanwhile, since 1998 Koch Industries has spent more than fifty million dollars on lobbying. Separately, the company's
political-action committee, KochPAC, has donated some eight million dollars to political campaigns, more than eighty
per cent of it to Republicans. So far in 2010, Koch Industries leads all other energy companies in political
contributions, as it has since 2006. In addition, during the past dozen years the Kochs and other family members
have personally spent more than two million dollars on political contributions. In the second quarter of 2010, David
Koch was the biggest individual contributor to the Republican Governors Association, with a million-dollar donation.
Other gifts by the Kochs may be untraceable; federal tax law permits anonymous personal donations to politically
active nonprofit groups.
In recent decades, members of several industrial dynasties have spent parts of their fortunes on a conservative agenda. In
the nineteen-eighties, the Olin family, which owns a chemicals-and-manufacturing conglomerate, became known for funding
right-leaning thinking in academia, particularly in law schools. And during the nineties Richard Mellon Scaife, a descendant of
Andrew Mellon, spent millions attempting to discredit President Bill Clinton. An Rabin-Havt, a vice-president at the
Democratic-leaning Web site Media Matters, said that the Kochs' effort is Unusual, in its marshalling of corporate and personal
funds: "Their role, in terms of financial commitments, is staggering."
Of course, Democrats give money, too. Their most prominent donor, the financier George Soros, runs a foundation, the
Open Society Institute, that has spent as much as a hundred million dollars a year in America. Soros has also made generous
private contributions to various Democratic campaigns, including Obama's. But Michael Vachon, his spokesman, argued that
Soros's giving is transparent, and that "none of his contributions are in the service of his own economic interests." The Kochs
have given millions of dollars to nonprofit groups that criticize environmental regulation and support lower taxes for industry.
Gus diZerega, the former friend, suggested that the Kochs' youthful idealism about libertarianism had largely devolved into a
rationale for corporate self-interest. He said of Charles, "Perhaps he has confused making money with freedom."
Some critics have suggested that the Kochs' approach has subverted the purpose of tax-exempt giving. By law, charitable
foundations must conduct exclusively nonpartisan activities that promote the public welfare. A 2004 report by the National
Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, a watchdog group, described the Kochs' foundations as being self-serving,
concluding, "These foundations give money to nonprofit organizations that do research and advocacy on issues that impact the
profit margin of Koch Industries."
The Kochs have gone well beyond their immediate self-interest, however, funding organizations that aim to push the
country in a libertarian. direction. Among the institutions that they have subsidized are the Institute for Justice, which files.
lawsuits opposing state and federal regulations; the Institute for Humane Studies, which underwrites libertarian academics; and
the Bill of Rights Institute, which promotes a conservative slant on the Constitution. Many of the organizations funded by the
Kochs employ specialists who write position Papers that are subsequently quoted by politicians and pundits. David Koch has
acknowledged that the family exerts tight ideological control. "If we're going to give a lot of money, we'll make darn sure they •
spend it in a way that goes along with our intent," he told Doherty. "And if they make a wrong turn and start doing things we
don't agree with, we withdraw funding."
he Kochs' subsidization of a pro-corporate movement fulfills, in many ways, the vision laid out in a secret 1971 memo that
Lewis Powell. then a Virginia attorney, wrote two months before he was nominated to the Supreme Court. The antiwar
movement had turned its anger on defense contractors, such as Dow Chemical, and Ralph Nader was leading a public-interest
crusade against corporations. Powell, writing a report for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, urged American companies to fight
back. The greatest threat to free enterprise, he warned, was not Communism or the New Left but, rather, "respectable elements
of society"—intellectuals, journalists, and scientists. To defeat them, he wrote, business leaders needed to wage a long-term,
• unified campaign to change public opinion.
Charles Koch seems to have approached both business and politics with the deliberation of an engineer. "To bring about
social change," he told Doherty, requires "a strategy" that is "vertically and horizontally integrated," spanning "from idea
creation to policy development to education to grassroots organizations to lobbying to litigation to political action." The project,
he admitted, was extremely ambitious. "We have a radical philosophy," he said.
In 1977, the Kochs provided the funds to launch the nation's first libertarian think tank, the Cato Institute. According to the
'Center for Public Integrity, between 1986 and 1993 the Koch family gave eleven million dollars to the institute. Today Cato
has more than a hundred full-time employees, and its experts and policy papers are widely quoted and respected by the
mainstream media. It describes itself as nonpartisan, and its scholars have at times been critical of both parties. But it has
consistently pushed for corporate tax cuts, reductions in social services, and laissez-faire environmental policies.
When President Obama, in a 2008 speech, described the science on global warming as "beyond dispute," the Cato Institute
took out a full-page ad in the Times to contradict him. Cato's resident scholars have relentlessly criticized political attempts to
stop global warming as expensive, ineffective, and unnecessary. Ed Crane, the Cato Institute's founder and president, told me
that "global-warming theories give the government more control of the economy."
Cato scholars have been particularly energetic in promoting the Climategate scandal. Last year, private e-mails of climate
scientists at the University of East Anglia, in England, were mysteriously leaked, and their exchanges appeared to suggest a
willingness to falsify data in order to buttress the idea that global warming is real. In the two weeks after the e-mails went
public, one Cato scholar gave more than twenty media interviews trumpeting the alleged scandal. But five independent inquiries
have since exonerated the researchers, and nothing was found in their e-mails or data to discredit the scientific consensus on
global warming. •
Nevertheless, the controversy succeeded in spreading skepticism about climate change. Even though the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration recently issued a report concluding that the evidence for global warming is unequivocal, more
Americans are convinced than at any time since 1997 that scientists have exaggerated the seriousness of global warming. The
Kochs promote this statistic on their company's Web site but do not mention the role that their funding has played in fostering
such doubt.
In a 2002 memo, the Republican political consultant Frank Luntz wrote that so long as "voters believe there is no consensus
about global warming within the scientific community' the status quo would prevail. The key for opponents of environmental
reform, he said, was to question the science—a public-relations strategy that the tobacco industry used effectively for years to
forestall regulation. The Kochs have funded many sources of environmental skepticism, such as the Heritage Foundation, which
has argued that "scientific facts gathered in the past 10 years do not support the notion of catastrophic human-made warming."
The brothers have given money to more obscure groups, too, such as the Independent Women's Forum, which opposes the
presentation of global warming as a scientific fact in American public schools. Until 2008, the group was run by Nancy
Pfotenhauer, a former lobbyist for Koch Industries. Mary Beth Jarvis, a vice-president of a Koch subsidiary, is on the group's
board.
Naomi Oreskes, a professor of history and science studies at the University of California, San Diego, is the co-author of
"Merchants of Doubt," a new book that chronicles various attempts by American industry to manipulate public opinion on
science. She noted that the Kochs, as the heads of "a company with refineries and pipelines," have "a lot at stake." She added,
"If the answer is to phase out fossil fuels, a different group of people are going to be making money, so we shouldn't be
surprised that they're fighting tooth and nail."
David Koch told New York that he was unconvinced that global warming has been caused by human activity. Even if it has
been, he said, the heating of the planet will be beneficial, resulting in longer growing seasons in the Northern Hemisphere. "The
Earth will be able to support enormously more people because far greater land area will be available to produce food," he said.
n the mid-eighties, the Kochs provided millions of dollars to George Mason University, in Arlington, Virginia, to set up another
think tank. Now known as the Mercatus Center, it promotes itself as "the world's premier university source for market-oriented
ideas—bridging the gap between academic ideas and real-world problems." Financial records show that the Koch family
foundations have contributed more than thirty million dollar's to George Mason, much of which has gone to the Mercatus
Center, a nonprofit organization. "It's ground zero for deregulation policy in Washington," Rob Stein, the Democratic strategist,
said. It is an unusual arrangement. "George Mason is a public university, and receives public funds," Stein noted. "Virginia is
hosting an institution that the Kochs practically control."
The founder of the Mercatus Center is Richard Fink, formerly an economist. Fink heads Koch Industries' lobbying
operation in Washington. In addition, he is the president of the Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation, the president of the
Claude R. Lambe Charitable Foundation, a director of the Fred C. and Mary R. Koch Foundation, and a director and co-
founder, with David Koch, of the Americans for Prosperity Foundation.
Fink, with his many titles, has become the central nervous system of the Kochtopus. He appears to have supplanted Ed
Crane, the head of the Cato Institute, as the brothers' main political lieutenant. Though David remains on the board at Cato,
Charles Koch has fallen out with Crane. Associates suggested to me that Crane had been insufficiently respectful of Charles's
management philosophy, which he distilled into a book called "The Science of Success," and trademarked under the name
Market-Based Management, or M.B.M. In the book. Charles recommends instilling a company's corporate culture with the
competitiveness of the marketplace.. Koch describes M.B.M. as a "holistic system" containing "five dimensions: vision, virtue
and talents, knowledge processes, decision rights and incentives." A top Cato Institute official told me that Charles "thinks he's
a genius. He's the emperor, and he's convinced he's wearing clothes." Fink, by contrast, has been far more embracing of
Charles's ideas. (Fink, like the Kochs, declined to. be interviewed.)
At a 1995 conference for philanthropfsts, Fink adopted the language of economics when speaking about the Mercatus
Center's purpose. He said that grant-makers should use think tanks and political-action groups to convert intellectual raw
materials into policy "products."
The Wall Street Journal has called the Mercatus Center "the most important think tank you've never heard of," and noted
that fourteen of the twenty-three regulations that President George W. Bush placed on a "hit list" had been suggested first by
Mercatus scholars. Fink told the paper that the Kochs have "other means of fighting [their] battles," and that the Mercatus
Center does riot actively promote the company's private interests. But Thomas McGarity, a law professor at the University of
Texas, who specializes in environmental issues, told me that "Koch has been constantly in trouble with the E.P.A., and
Mercatus has constantly hammered on the agency." An environmental lawyer who has clashed with the Mercatus Center called
it "a means of laundering economic aims." The lawyer explained the strategy: "You take corporate money and give it to a
neutral-sounding think tank," which "hires people with pedigrees and academic degrees who put out credible-seeming studies.
But they all coincide perfectly with the economic interests of their funders."
In 1997, for instance, the E.P.A. moved to reduce surface ozone, a form of pollution caused, in part, by emissions from oil
refineries. Susan Dudley, an economist who became a top official at the 'Mercatus Center, criticized the proposed rule. The
E.P.A., she argued, had not taken into account that smog-free skies would result in more cases of skin cancer. She projected that
if pollution were controlled it would cause up to eleven thousand additional cases of skin cancer each year.
In 1999, the District of Columbia Circuit Court took 'up Dudley's smog argument. Evaluating the E.P.A. rule, the court
found that the E.P.A. had "explicitly disregarded" the "possible health benefits of ozone." In another part of the opinion, the
court ruled, 2-1, that the E.P.A. had overstepped its authority in calibrating standards for ozone emissions. As the Constitutional
Accountability Center, a think tank, revealed, the judges in the majority had previously attended legal junkets, on a Montana
ranch, that were arranged by the Foundation for Research on Economics and the Environment—a group funded by Koch family
foundations. The judges have claimed that the ruling was unaffected by their attendance.
deas don't happen on their own," Matt Kibbe, the president of Freedom Works, a Tea Party advocacy group, told me.
"Throughout history, ideas need patrons." The Koch brothers, after helping to create Cato and Mercatus, concluded that think
tanks alone were not enough to effect change. They needed a mechanism to deliver those ideas to the street, and to attract the
public's support. in 1984, David Koch and Richard Fink created yet another organization. and Kibbe joined them. The group,
Citizens for a Sound Economy, seemed like a grassroots movement, but according to the Center for Public Integrity it was
sponsored principally by the Kochs, who provided $7.9 million between 1986 and 19.93. Its mission, Kibbe said, "was to take
these heavy ideas and translate them for mass America.... We read the same literature Obama did about nonviolent
revolutions--Saul _Minsky, Gandhi, Martin Luther King. We studied the idea of the Boston Tea Party as an example of
nonviolent social change. We learned we needed boots on the ground to sell ideas, not candidates." Within a few years, the
group had mobilized fifty paid field workers, in twenty-six states, to rally voters behind the Kochs' agenda. David and Charles,
according to one participant, were "very controlling, very top down. You can't build an organization with them. They run it."
Around this time, the brothers faced a political crisis. In 1989, the Senate Select Committee on Indian Affairs investigated
their business and released a scathing report accusing Koch Oil of "a widespread and sophisticated scheme to steal crude oil
from Indians and others through fraudulent mismeasuring." The Kochs admitted that they had improperly taken thirty-one
million dollars' worth of crude oil, but said that it had been accidental. Charles Koch told committee investigators that oil
measurement is "a very uncertain art."
To defend its reputation, Koch IndustrieS hired Robert Strauss, then a premier Washington lobbyist; the company soon
opened an office in the city. A grand jury was convened to investigate the allegations, but it eventually disbanded, without
issuing criminal charges. According to the Senate report, after the committee hearings Koch operatives delved into the personal
lives of committee staffers, even questioning an ex-wife. Senate investigators were upset by the Kochs' tactics. Kenneth Batten,
the counsel to the Senate committee, said, "These people have amassed such unaccountable power!'
.'
By •1993, when Bill Clinton became President, Citizens for a Sound Economy had become a prototype for the kind of
corporate-backed opposition campaigns that have proliferated during the Obama era. The group waged a successful assault on
Clinton's proposed B.T.U. tax on energy, for instance, running advertisements, staging media events, and targeting opponents.
And it mobilized anti-tax rallies outside the Capitol—rallies that NPR described as "designed to strike fear into the hearts of
wavering Democrats." Dan Glickman, a former Democratic congressman from Wichita, who supported the B.I.U. tax, recalled,
"I'd been in Congress eighteen years. The Kochs actually engaged against me and funded my opponent. They used a lot of
'resources and effort—their employees, too." Glickman suffered a surprise defeat. "I can't prove it, but I think I was probably
their victim," he said.
The Kochs continued to disperse their money, creating slippery organizations with generic-sounding names, and this made
it difficult to ascertain the extent of their influence in Washington. In 1990, Citizens for a Sound Economy created a spinoff
group, Citizens for the Environment, which called acid rain and other environmental problems "myths." When the
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette investigated the matter, it discovered that the spinoff group had "no citizen membership of its own."
In 1997, another Senate investigation began looking into what a minority report called "an audacious plan to pour millions
of dollars in contributions into Republican campaigns nationwide without disclosing the amount or source," in order to evade
campaign-finance laws. A shell corporation, Triad Management, had paid more than three million dollars for attack ads in
twenty-six House races and three Senate races. More than half of the advertising money came from an obscure nonprofit group,
the Economic Education Trust. The Senate committee's minority report suggested that "the trust was financed in whole or in
part by Charles and David Koch of Wichita, Kansas." The brothers were suspected of having secretly paid for the attack ads,
most of which aired in states where Koch Industries did business. In Kansas, where Triad Management was especially active,
the funds may have played a decisive role in four of six federal races. The Kochs, when asked by reporters if they had given the
money, refused to comment. In i998, however, the Wall Street Journal confirmed that a consultant on the Kochs' payroll had
been involved in the scheme. Charles Lewis, of the Center for Public Integrity, described the scandal as "historic. Triad was the
first time a major corporation used a cutout"—a front operation—"in a threatening way. Koch Industries was the poster child of
a company run amok."
uring the Clinton Administration, the energy industry faced increased scrutiny and regulation. In the mid-nineties, the Justice
Department filed two lawsuits against Koch Industries, claiming that it was responsible for more than three hundred oil spills,
which had released an estimated three million gallons of oil into lakes and rivers. The penalty was potentially as high as two
hundred and fourteen million dollars. In a settlement. Koch Industries paid a record thirty-million-dollar civil fine, and agreed to
spend five million dollars on environmental projects.
In 1999, a jury found Koch Industries guilty of negligence and malice in the deaths of two Texas teen-agers in an explosion
that resulted from a leaky underground butane pipeline. (In 2001, the company paid an undisclosed settlement.) And in the final
months of the Clinton Presidency the Justice Department levelled a ninety-seven-count indictment against the company, for
covering up the discharge of ninety-one tons of benzene, a carcinogen, from its refinery in Corpus Christi, Texas. The company
was liable •for three hundred and fifty million dollars in fines, and four Koch employees faced up to thirty-five years in prison.
The Koch Petroleum Group eventually pleaded guilty to one criminal charge of covering up environmental violations, including
the falsification of documents, and paid a twenty-million-dollar fine. David Uhlmann, a career prosecutor who, at the time,
headed the environmental-crimes section at the Justice Department, described the suit as "one of the most significant cases ever
brought under the Clean Air Act." He added, "Environmental crimes are almost always motivated by economics and arrogance,
and in the Koch case there was a healthy dose of both."
During the 2000 election campaign, Koch Industries spent some nine hundred thousand dollars to support the candidacies
of George W. Bush and other Republicans. During the Bush years, Koch Industries and other fossil-fuel companies enjoyed
remarkable prosperity. The 2005 energy bill, which Hillary Clinton dubbed the Dick Cheney Lobbyist Energy Bill, offered
enormous subsidies and tax breaks for energy companies. The Kochs have cast themselves as deficit hawks, but, according to a
study by Media Matters, their companies have benefitted from nearly a hundred million dollars in government contracts since
2000.
In 2004, Citizens for a Sound Economy was accused of illegitimately throwing its weight behind Bush's reelection. The
group's Oregon branch had attempted to get Ralph Nader on the Presidential ballot, in order to dilute Democratic support for
John Kerry. Critics argued that it was illegal, for a tax-exempt nonprofit organization to donate its services for partisan political
purposes. (A complaint was filed with the Federal Election Commission; it was dismissed.)
That year, internal rivalries at Citizens for a Sound Economy caused the organization to split apart. David Koch and Fink
started a new group, Americans for Prosperity, and they hired Tim Phillips to run it. Phillips was a political veteran who had
worked with Ralph Reed, the evangelical leader and Republican activist, co-founding Century Strategies, a campaign-
consulting company that became notorious for its ties to the disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff. Phillips's online biography
describes him as an expert in "grasstops" and "grassroots" political organizing. The Kochs' choice of Phillips signalled an even
greater toughness. The conservative operative Grover Norquist, who is known for praising "throat slitters" in politics, called
Phillips "a grownup who can make things happen."
Last year, Phillips told the Financial Times that Americans for Prosperity had only eight thousand registered members.
Currently, its Web site claims that the group has "1.2 million activists." Whatever its size, the Kochs' political involvement has
been intense; a former employee of the Cato Institute told me that Americans for Prosperity "was micromanaged by the Kochs."
And the brothers' investment may well have paid off: Americans for Prosperity, in concert with the family's other
organizations, has been instrumental in disrupting the Obama Presidency.
In January, 2008, Charles Koch wrote in his company newsletter that America could be on the verge of "the greatest loss of
liberty and prosperity since the 1930s." That October, Americans for Prosperity held a conference of conservative operatives at
a Marriott hotel outside Washington. Erick Erickson, the editor-in-chief of the conservative blog RedState.com, took the lectern,
thanked David Koch, and vowed to "unite and fiaht ... the armies of the left!" Sodn after Obama assumed office, Americans
for Prosperity launched "Porkulus" rallies against Obama's stimulus-spending measures. Then the Mercatus Center released a
report claiming that stimulus funds had been directed disproportionately toward Democratic districts; eventually, the author was
forced to correct the report, but not before Rush Limbaugh, citing.the paper, had labelled Obama's program "a slush fund," and
Fox News and other conservative outlets had echoed the sentiment. (Phil Kerpen, the vice-president for policy at Americans for
Prosperity, is a contributor to the Fox News Web site. Another officer at Americans for Prosperity, Walter Williams, often
guest-hosts for Limbaugh.)
Americans for Prosperity also created an offshoot, Patients United Now, which organized what Phillips has estimated to be
more than three hundred rallies against health-care reform. Atone rally, an effigy of a Democratic congressman was hung; at
another, protesters unfurled a banner depicting corpses from Dachau. The group also helped organize the "Kill the Bill" protests
outside the Capitol, in March, where Democratic supporters of health-care reform alleged that they were spat on and cursed at.
Phillips was a featured speaker.
Americans for Prosperity has held at least eighty events targeting cap-and-trade legislation, which is aimed at making
industries pay for the air pollution that they create. Speakers for the group claimed, with exaggeration, that even back-yard
barbecues and kitchen stoves would be taxed. The group was also involved in the attacks on Obama's "green jobs" czar, Van
Jones, and waged a crusade against international climate talks. Casting, his group as a champion of ordinary workers who would
be hurt by environmentalists, Phillips went to Copenhagen last year and staged a protest outside the United Nations conference
on climate change, declaring, "We're a grassroots organization.... 1 think it's unfortunate when wealthy children of wealthy
families . want to send unemployment rates in the United States up to twenty per cent."
Grover Norquist, who holds a weekly meeting for conservative leaders in Washington, including representatives from
Americans for Prosperity, told me that last summer's raucous rallies were pivotal in undermining Obama's agenda. The
Republican leadership in Congress, he said, "couldn't have clone it without August, when people went out on the streets. It
discouraged deal-makers"—Republicans who might otherwise have worked constructively with Obama. Moreover, the
appearance of growing public opposition to Obama affected corporate donors on K Street. "K Street is a three-billion-dollar
weathervane," Norquist said. "When Obama was strong, the Chamber of Commerce said, 'We can work with the Obama
Administration.' But that changed when thousands of people went into the street and 'terrorized' congressmen. August is what
changed it. Now that Obama is weak, people are getting tough."
As the first anniversary of Obama's election approached, David Koch came to the Washington area to attend a triumphant
Americans for Prosperity gathering. Obama's poll numbers were falling fast. Not .a single Republican senator was working with
the Administration on health care, or much else. Pundits were writing about Obama's political ineptitude, and Tea Party groups
were accusing the President of initiating "a government takeover." In a speech, Koch said, "Days like today bring to reality the
vision of our board of directors when we started this organization, five years ago." He went on, "We envisioned a mass
movement, a state-based one, but national in scope, of hundreds of thousands of American citizens from all walks of life
standing up and fighting for the economic freedoms that made our nation the most prosperous society in history.... Thankfully,
the stirrings from California to Virginia, and from Texas to Michigan, show that more and more of our fellow-citizens are
beginning to see the same truths as we do." .
While Koch didn't explicitly embrace the Tea Party movement that day, more recently he has come close to doing so,
praising it for demonstrating the "powerful visceral hostility in the body politic against the massive increase in government
power, the massive efforts to socialize this country." Charles Koch, in a newsletter sent to his seventy thousand employees,
compared the Obama Administration to the regime of the Venezuelan strongman Hugo Chavez. The Kochs' sense of
imperilment is somewhat puzzling. Income inequality in America is greater than it has been since the nineteen-twenties, and
since the seventies the tax rates of the wealthiest have fallen more than those of the middle class. Yet the brothers' message has
evidently resonated with voters: a recent poll found that fifty-five per cent of Americans agreed that Obama is a socialist.
Americans for Prosperity, meanwhile, has announced that it will spend an additional forty-five million dollars before the
midterm elections, in November. Although the group is legally prohibited from directly endorsing candidates, it nonetheless
plans to target some fifty House races and half a dozen Senate races, staging rallies, organizing door-to-door canvassing, and
running ads aimed at "educating voters about where candidates stand."
Though the Kochs have slowed Obama's momentum, their larger political battle is far from won. Richard Fink, interviewed
by FrumForum.com this spring, said, "If you look at where we've gone from the year 2000 to now, with the expansion of
government spending and a debt burden that threatens to bankrupt the country, it doesn't look very good at all." He went on, "It
looks like the infrastructure that was built and ruirtitred has not carried the day." He suggested that the Kochs needed "to get
more into the practical, day-to-day issues of governing."
n 1991, David Koch was badly injured in a plane crash.in Los Angeles. He was the sole passenger in first class to survive. As he
was recovering, a routine physical exam led to the discovery of prostate cancer. Koch received treatment, settled down, started a
family, and reconsidered his life. As he told Portfolio, "When you're the only one who survived in the front of the plane and
everyone.else died—yeah, you think, 'My God, the good Lord spared me for some greater purpose.' My joke is that I've been
busy ever since, doing all the good work 1 can think of, so He can have confidence in me."
Koch began giving spectacularly large donations to the arts and sciences. And he became a patron of cancer research,
focussing on prostate cancer. In addition to his gifts to Sloan-Kettering, he gave fifteen million dollars to New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, a hundred and twenty-five million to M.I.T. for cancer research, twenty million to Johns Hopkins
University, and twenty-five million to the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, in Houston. In response to his generosity, Sloan-
Kettering gave Koch its Excellence in Corporate Leadership Award. In 2004, President Bush named him to the National Cancer
Advisory Board, which guides the National.Cancer Institute.
Koch's corporate and political roles, however, may pose conflicts of interest. For example, at the same time that David
Koch has been casting himself as a champion in the fight against cancer, Koch Industries has been lobbying to prevent the
E.P.A. from classifying formaldehyde, which the company produces in great quantities, as a "known carcinogen" in humans.
Scientists have long known that formaldehyde causes cancer in rats, and several major scientific studies have concluded
that formaldehyde causes cancer in human beings—including one published last year by the National Cancer Institute, on
•whose advisory board Koch sits. The study tracked twenty-five thousand patients for an average of forty years; subjects exposed
to higher amounts of formaldehyde had significantly higher rates of leukemia. These results helped lead an expert panel within
the National Institutes of Health to conclude that formaldehyde should be categorized as a known carcinogen, and be strictly
controlled by the government. Corporations have resisted regulations on formaldehyde for decades, however, and Koch
Industries has been a large funder of members of Congress who have stymied the E.P.A., requiring it to defer new regulations
until more studies are completed.
Koch Industries became a major producer of the chemical in 2005, after it bought Georgia-Pacific, the paper and wood-
products company, for twenty-one billion dollars. Georgia-Pacific manufactures formaldehyde in its chemical division, and uses
it to produce various wood products, such as plywood and laminates. Its annual production capacity for formaldehyde is 2.2
billion pounds. Last December, Traylor Champion, Georgia-Pacific's vice-president of environmental affairs, sent a formal
letter of protest to federal health authorities. He wrote that the company "strongly disagrees" with the N.I.H. panel's conclusion
that formaldehyde should be treated as a known human carcinogen. David Koch did not recuse himself from the National
Cancer Advisory Board, or divest himself of company stock, while his company was directly lobbying the government to keep
formaldehyde on the market. (A board spokesperson said that the issue of formaldehyde had not come up.)
James Fluff, an associate director at the National Institute for Environmental Health Sciences, a division of the N.I.H., told
me that it was "disgusting" for Koch to be serving on the National Cancer Advisory Board: "It's just not good for public health.
Vested interests should not be on the board." He 'went on, "Those boards are very important. They're very influential as to
whether N.C.I. goes into formaldehyde or not. Billions of dollars are involved in formaldehyde."
Harold Vannus, the director of the National Cancer Institute, knows David Koch from Memorial Sloan-Kettering, which he
used to run. He said that, at Sloan-Kettering, "a lot of people who gave to us had large business interests. The one thing we
wouldn't tolerate in our board members is tobacco." When told of Koch Industries' stance on formaldehyde, Varmus said that
he was "surprised."
he David H. Koch Hall of Human Origins, at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History, is a multimedia
exploration of the theory that mankind evolved in response to climate change. At the main entrance, viewers are confronted
with a giant graph charting the Earth's temperature over the past ten million years, which notes that it is far cooler now than it
was ten thousand years ago. Overhead, the text reads, "HUMANS EVOLVED IN RESPONSE TO A CHANGING WORLD." The
message, as amplified by the exhibit's Web site, is that "key human adaptations evolved in response to
environmental instability." Only at the end of the exhibit, under the headline "OUR SURVIVAL CHALLENGE," is it noted
that levels of carbon dioxide are higher now than they have ever been, and that they are projected to increase
dramatically in the next century. No cause is given for this development; no mention is made of any possible role
played by fossil fuels. The exhibit makes it seem part of a natural continuum. The accompanying text says, "During
the period in which humans evolved, Earth's temperature and the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
fluctuated together." An interactive game in the exhibit suggests that humans will continue to adapt to climate
change in the future. People may build "underground cities;" developing "short, compact bodies" or "curved spines,"
so that "moving around in tight spaces will be no problem."
Such ideas uncannily echo the Koch message. The company's January newsletter to employees, for instance, argueS that
"fluctuations in the earth's climate predate humanity," and concludes, "Since we can't control Mother Nature, let's figure out
how to get along with her changes." Joseph Romm, a physicist who runs the Web site ClirnateProgress.org, is infuriated by the
Smithsonian's presentation. "The whole exhibit whitewashes the modern climate issue," he said. "I think the Kochs wanted to
be seen as some sort of high-minded company, associated with the greatest natural-history and science museum in the country.
But the truth is, the exhibit is underwritten by big-time polluters, who are underground .funders of action to stop efforts to deal
with this threat to humanity. I think the Smithsonian should have drawn the line."
Cristian Samper, the museum's director, said that the exhibit is not about climate change, and described Koch as "one of the
best donors we've had, in my tenure here, because he's very interested in the content, but completely hands off." He noted, "1.
don't know all the details.of his involvement in other issues."
The Kochs have long depended on the public's not knowing all the details about them. They have been content to operate what
David Koch has called "the largest company that you've never heard of." But with the growing prominence of the Tea Party,
and with increased awareness of the Kochs' ties to the movement, the brothers may find it harder to deflect scrutiny. Recently,
President °barna took aim at the Kochs' political network. Speaking at a Democratic National Committee fund-raiser, in
Austin, he warned supporters that the Supreme Court's recent ruling in the Citizens United case—which struck down laws
prohibiting direct Corporate spending on campaigns—had made it even easier for big companies to hide behind "groups with
harmless-sounding names like Americans for Prosperity." Obama said, "They don't have to say who, exactly, Americans for
Prosperity are. You don't know if it's a foreign-controlled corporation"—or even, he added, "a big oil company."
---


---

Madame Secretary:
I'd like to update you on our efforts to engage with Bolivia.
You engaged personally and through Maria Echaveste as we've tried to think and act creatively to extract positives from
a difficult starting point. Echaveste visited Bolivia in June and September 2009, and I traveled there this June to
underline our commitment to better relations; you met with FM Choquehuanca at the OAS GA in Lima later that month;
and Labor Secretary Solis and Maria Otero traveled to President Morales' inauguration in January 2010.
Best Regards,
Arturo
---

Our mission to the OECD wants to announce USG support for Angel Gurria's reappointment at OECD Secretary
General. Bob and Froman both support. Most other countries have already said they support; there are no other
candidates; and the OECD has never not given a SG a second term. Nobody in the USG has raised objections. Just
wanted to flag for you in case you had concerns.
---

Here is the latest (as of Saturday at 12:30 am). This reflects the changes we discussed in our call on Wednesday, as well
as feedback from assorted vetters. I've also trimmed and tweezed it down to about
6,100 words. We should probably attempt to trim some more if we can.
It's a very long piece. -- Lissa
---

That would be great. Fax is
Sent from my iPhone. Apologies for any typos.
On Aug 28, 2010, at 8:32 AM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
> Thx. I'll work on it and may I fax back to you my changes?
>
---

Hrc, pis see note that jimmy carter sent to lauren re tues. Do you want us to have jeff bader join the meeting?
---

202 647 8947
---

I think I can track down this binder today and get it to you.
---

Thx. Will be home in an hour and will check.
---

We will fax a version of these to you shortly.
---

Roger.
---

Yep -- working through them now.
---

Very much so. I am also making a few changes as well, and there are a couple of places where I have questions on your
edits. I'll have a new draft back to you in 2 hours.
---

Yes, got them. Jake wanted to put them in himself so he could make his own fixes at te same time. He will send us all a
clean version.
---

sbwhoeop
Saturday, August 28, 2010 2:00 PM
Re: H: Can someone print out this poll from Brookings on Arab public opinion for you?
Sid
good.
---

Valenzuela, Arturo A <ValenzuelaAA@state.gov>
Saturday, August 28, 2010 2:05 PM
Valmoro, Lona J; Huma Abedin
Re: From Arturo re Bolivia
Happy to discuss. I am on leave in Florida--- returning to DC Wednesday the 1st around 2:30 pm-- could come in after
3:00. Am available any time Thursday afternoon or Friday B6
the 3rd. Best, Arturo
---

Ok
---

Burns recommends that we hold you back for a call to Menon on Monday. That is the current plan.
---

I'm so glad you took the time to see it. It's both practical/achievable and visionary. And I'm wondering if that stellar
group of CEOs etc that Madeleine, Walter, and Muhtar have assembled cdnt spearhead a drive to make it a reality. AM
---

I've just sent Jon my updated version. I know you said you just want this to be done — and I don't blame you — but take a
look at what I've done. I've flagged a few things I think should change. With one more pass by you, and a few more
adjustments by us, I think this is good to go for Monday.
---

Cc:
Samuel Berger
Saturday, August 28, 2010 5:30 PM
H
Samuel Berger
Principles_Design_Working Draft.pdf; Principles_Design_Working Draft.pdf
HRC: I am attaching a matrix of prior language that has been used in connection with the major Israeli-Palestinian
issues.
It was prepared in the context of language the US might use if it were to articulate principles, not principles to which the
parties might agree, but it provides most of the language that has been used in the past, with citations.
The USIP Middle East group Steve and I chair decided that rather than issue a static report, we would
prepare/commission a series of timely and specific papers that we would provide privately to the Administration. (I have
sent some of those to your office). They include papers on security, Palestinian institution building, public attitudes in
Israel and the territories, etc.
I will deliver a set of those papers to your office on Monday
If it would be useful, I would be happy to convene a small, private discussion with some of the sharpest people in the
group, or give you some names.
A few observations following up our call this am.:
(1) This (a Framework Agreement) is very difficult but I don't think impossible. If Bibi can say he has secured
unprecedented commitments on security and established the principle of a Jewish state, he could decide to
play the historic leader. If he is uncompromising, he will have to deal with the consequences for US-Israeli
relations. His opt out, of course, is to blame the Pais, but we will be "in the room".
(2) I think this should be a negotiation that goes from principle to paper rather than the other way around, i.e. not
an early exchange of documents that dig each side into its positions. The two leaders need to feel each
other out first at the level of first principles, to be distilled after a period by the U.S.
(3) Not sure we need to be in every meeting.. Ultimately, they need to establish some trust. But we (you or
Mitchell) need to be present enough to make sure that there is no misunderstanding of what has been
agreed, and to move things along. .
(4) On the critical issue of security, I don't think the Israelis any more trust NATO to stand firm. They will expect
an IDF presence in the Jordan Valley for some time. Palestinians recognize that there will be a transitional
phase. Question is how long.
(5) As you know, Abbas' position is crumbling. Based on my conversation with him when he was here recently, I
think he is genuinely committed to an agreement. He hopes that, if this fails, Bibi will seem to be
unreasonable. And in that event, I expect he will resign. His minimal requirement is the equivalent of 1967.
This is all tricky business, but I don't think we have a responsible choice not to make this effort. It is the highest form of
statesmanship for you to try.
I am leaving on Monday for some foreign travel but can be reached through my office -- Laura
Huber
Sandy
---

Roger. We'll make the changes, clean it up, and sent last round to you tomorrow.
---


---

Here is the latest draft, which incorporates your changes and suggestions, and has been through each of us (me, Jake,
and AMS) at least once. There may still be a few facts to be tweaked and we are looking for one more example from
WHA for the Mexico paragraph. I will also re-read it carefully later tonight and tomorrow morning to catch any typos,
weird grammar, or things that don't flow. I'm too close to it now and want to read it again when I'm fresh. But hopefully
this is close to final.
Lissa
---

I think it is a strong case and very clear now. I just want to read it again in the morning to make sure everything tracks
and flows and double check a few facts. Also I realized this afternoon that we weren't overt about the QDDR being the
first of many, but I think I took care of that in this draft. All in all, I feel good about it.
Sent from my iPhone. Apologies for any typos.
On Aug 29, 2010, at 4:47 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
> Thx for all you work on this. Do you fell ok about it now?
>
---


---

This is so discouraging.
---

MS,
Westerwelle has a call into you. He would like to discuss his recent trip to the Balkans. A call sheet is forthcoming — we
are due to receive it mid-day today.
Lauren
---

The Indian foreign ministry has been pinging us to have a call between you and Krishna on the nuclear liability
legislation. Bill believes you should call Krishna today — because he will be in receive mode —
SCA is drafting that message with Bill's guidance. You could then call Menon tomorrow or Wednesday.
If you agree, we'll get the call sheet out to you soon.
---

I solved the mystery on ralph thomson, the ceo of international business catalysts, who sent you letter and mentioned
his export conference this fall. You met him at the business roundtable lunch lorraine hariton organized on july 16th for
you and bob hormats. Ralph was invited because they include all past ACE winners on the invitation list (he won in 2007)
and he runs a small/medium size business which is a group they target for these roundtables. Lorraines office is in touch
with him on who would be appropriate to attend his conference.
---


---


---

Purpose of Call:
Points to Raise:
Background: The Indian government tabled the nuclear liability legislation August 25, after which it was amended,
The bill, which has garnered front-page, daily news coverage, passed the upper house of parliament
with broad support on August 30.
Ambassador Roemer and Under Secretary Burns discussed our concerns again with National
Security Adviser Menon on August 27; we have requested that NSA Jones also call Menon. Embassy staff provided
specific recommendations for fixing the legislation to Mukherjee's staff, Prime Minister's Office and Ministry of External
Affairs on August 24.
---

Nope, we r waiting for them to confirm.
Jon is bringing printout
---

He cannot do today
Maybe tomorrow morning
---


---

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Monday, August 30, 2010 3:31 PM
H
Fw: From B6
Fyi
---


---

To follow up on a conversation Jake had with you about regional media at the end of this week's MEPP, we're
recommending that at the end of Thursday or Friday morning before you leave DC that you do two TV interviews: one
Israeli (likely Channel 2), and one with AI Jazeera. If you're open to it, we could try something creative and have both
interview you at same time. They'll likely balk but worth a try just for the symbolism
---

RELEASE IN PART
B6
---


---


---

Fyi
---

FYI
---

fyi
---

set of working papers
_final.doc; Ten Lessons for 2010 Jinal.pdf
We asked Dan Kurtzer and Scott Lasensky to boil down 10 key lessons from the big book of working papers that Sandy
and Steve's USIP task force has produced. They are attached. I think the most useful lessons are #3 re the process is not
an end in itself but an opportunity to put forward substantive proposals; #4 re avoiding incrementalism and developing
a regional strategy, and #7 on making sure we have a backroom operation to work through all the strategic dimensions
of possible bridging proposals.
AM
---

I don't know if you had time to read the longer paper from Louise Diamond that I sent you, but here she has boiled
down her basic arguments into 700 words.
---

Printed for her
---

FYI
---

