FYI --- 
Can I call you in 30? Several items. --- 
Secretary Clinton's leadership on Libya
HRC has been a critical voice on Libya in administration deliberations, at NATO, and in contact group meetings — as well
as the public face of the U.S. effort in Libya. She was instrumental in securing the authorization, building the coalition,
and tightening the noose around Qadhafi and his regime.
February 25— HRC announces the suspension of operations of the Libyan embassy in Washington.
February 26 — HRC directs efforts to evacuate all U.S. embassy personnel from Tripoli and orders the closing of the
embassy.
February 26 -- HRC made a series of calls to her counterparts to help secure passage of UNSC 1970, which imposes
sanctions on Gaddafi and his family and refers Qadhafi and his cronies to the ICC
February 28 — HRC travels to Geneva, Switzerland for consultations with European partners on Libya. She gives a major
address in which she says: "Colonel Qadhafi and those around him must be held accountable for these acts, which
violate international legal obligations and common decency. Through their actions, they have lost the legitimacy to
govern. And the people of Libya have made themselves
clear: It is time for Qadhafi to go — now, without further violence or delay." She also works to secure the suspension of
Libya from membership in the Human Rights Council.
Early March — HRC appoints Special Envoy Chris Stevens to be the U.S.
representative to Benghazi
March 14— HRC travels to Paris for the G8 foreign minister's meeting.
She meets with INC representative Jibril and consults with her colleagues on further UN Security Council action. She
notes that a no-fly zone will not be adequate.
B6
B5
March 14-16 — HRC participates in a series of high-level video- and teleconferences
She is a leading voice for strong UNSC action and a NATO civilian protection mission.
March 17 —HRC secures Russian abstention and Portuguese and African support for UNSC 1973, ensuring that it passes.
1973 authorizes a no-fly zone over Libya and "all necessary measures" - code for military action - to protect civilians
against Gaddafi's army.
March 19— HRC travels to Paris to meet with European and Arab leaders to prepare for military action to protect
civilians. That night, the first U.S. air strikes halt the advance of Gaddafi's forces on Benghazi and target Libya's air
defenses.
March 24— HRC engages with allies and secures the transition of command and control of the civilian protection mission
to NATO. She announces the transition in a statement.
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739876
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045179
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739876
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER.
March 18-30— HRC engages with UAE, Qatar, and Jordan to seek their participation in coalition operations. Over the
course of several days, all three devote aircraft to the mission.
March 29 — HRC travels to London for a conference on Libya, where she is a driving force behind the creation of a
Contact Group comprising 20-plus countries to coordinate efforts to protect civilians and plan for a post-Qadhafi Libya.
She is instrumental in setting up a rotating chair system to ensure regional buy-in.
April 14 — HRC travels to Berlin for NATO meetings. She is the driving force behind NATO adopting a communiqué that
calls for Qadhafi's departure as a political objective, and lays out three clear military objectives: end of attacks and
threat of attacks on civilians; the removal of Qadhafi forces from cities they forcibly entered; and the unfettered
provision of humanitarian access.
May 5— HRC travels to Rome for a Contact Group meeting. The Contact Group establishes a coordination system and a
temporary financial mechanism to funnel money to the TNC.
June 8 — HRC travels to Abu Dhabi for another Contact Group meeting and holds a series of intense discussions with
rebel leaders.
June 12 — HRC travels to Addis for consultations and a speech before the African Union, pressing the case for a
democratic transition in Libya.
Late June — HRC meets with House Democrats and Senate Republicans to persuade them not to de-fund the Libya
operation.
July 15 — HRC travels to Istanbul and announces that the U.S.
recognizes the TNC as the legitimate government of Libya. She also secures recognition from the other members of the
Contact Group.
July 16— HRC sends Feltman, Cretz, and Chollet to Tunis to meet with Qadhafi envoys "to deliver a clear and firm
message that the only way to move forward, is for Qadhafi to step down".
Early August — HRC works to construct a $1.5 billion assets package to be approved by the Security Council and sent to
the TNC. That package is working through its last hurdles.
Early August After military chief Abdel Fattah Younes is killed, S sends a personal message to TNC head Jalil to press for
a responsible investigation and a careful and inclusive approach to creating a new executive council.
Early August HRC secures written pledges from the TNC to an inclusive, pluralistic democratic transition. She
continues to consult with European and Arab colleagues on the evolving situation.
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739876
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045180 --- 
FYI
--- --- 
FYI
From Stevens, John C
Sent; Monday, April 23, 2012 7:00 PM
To; Sullivan, Jacob)
Cc Cretz, Gene A; Fettman, Jeffrey
Subject RE: Latest from HRC friend
Jake- Interesting report. Gene is closer to the action and I defer to him on the latest Jail-ian thinking
and machinations vis-a-vis the cabinet and INC. I hadn't heard about ENI-related corruption but
wouldn't be surprised.
On the federalism issue,. Jail is right to be concerned about eastern agitation for autonomy. A
cabinet chance won't solve that problem, though. Nor will recruiting Belhaj and Islamist fighters to
take on the Bardans. To the contrary, it would only lead to unwanted bloodshed - the large Obeid
tribe still nurses a serious grudge against Belhaj and his ilk for the Islamists' presumed role in killing their
beloved Gen. Yunis last July and would probably put up a fierce fight.
The cabinet and INC need to have a serious discussion with the Bargans - if they aren't already
doing so - about how power and resources are to be distributed in the new Libya. The Libyans held
similarly heated debates on this very topic in the early1950s as they held their first parliamentary
elections and drafted their constitution (there were actually violent skirmishes in connection with
those elections, and Washington delayed the arrival of the first US ambassador until after things had
calmed down). Hopefully the current leadership can negotiate these issues peaceably in the
corning months. Of course, we and the UN and our other partners should encourage them to do so.
- Chris
SBU
This email is UNCLASSIFIED,
From; Sullivan, Jacob
Sent: Monday, April 23, 2012 5:31 PM
To: Stevens, John C; Cr, Gene A; Feltman, Jeffrey D
Subject Latest from HRC friend
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739878
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045185
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739878
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER.
Let me know your thoughts:
SOURCE: Sources with direct access to the Libyan National Transitional Council, as well as the highest levels of
European Governments, and Western Intelligence and security services.
1.On April 17, 2012 Libyan National Transitional Council (NTC) President Mustafa Abdel Jalil stated to a close
advisor that he is considering when, or even if, to hold a vote of no confidence in the NTC regarding support for the
government of Prime Minister Abdel Rahman al-Keib. According to a source with access to the NTC leadership, Jalil
realizes that a majority of the Council members no longer support el-Keib and his cabinet of Western educated technical
experts. Jaili continues to believe that, for the moment, the most important issue facing the NTC is the federalist
movement toward a semi-autonomous state in the Eastern region of Cyrenaica (Barge in Arabic). This situation continues
to complicate the NTC efforts to stabilize the country. With this in mind, Jalil expressed concern that a dramatic vote of no
confidence for el-Keib will weaken the entire NTC by association. Instead, according to this source, Jalil is considering
delaying a CiOCISI011, possibly putting it off until an elected legislature is in place in the late summer or early fall of 2012.
2. (Source Comment: In the opinion of this individual, the NTC has been able to reach a temporary
understanding with the eastern federalists, allowing the separatists to administer their local regions, while deferring to the
NTC for national and international issues. The complicating factor at this point lies in reaching a determination regarding
who has authority over new contracts with oil companies and other international firms. As of the week of April 16, 2012,
no decision has been reached on this point. The bulk of the NTC leadership is drawn from Barge, and Jalil now believes
they can control the situation if they can establish an organized central government. In particular, Jalil, according to a
sensitive source, is increasingly confident that the eastern roots of the NTC will allow him to balance the federalist
movement against the need for a sense of national unity. In the opinion of this source, el-Keib's future depends on Jalil's
opinion of his capacity to deal with this complex situation.)
3. Minister of Defense Ousama al Juwali is viewed by Jalil as the most important western Libyan in el-Keib's
cabinet, and the President and the leaders of the NTC had hoped that he would be able to deal with the confused security
situation in Tripoli. However, while he did receive assurances from General Abdel Hakim Alamin Belhaj regarding
possible assistance from his Islamist troops if fighting broke out between the National Army and the militia's loyal to the
eastern federalists. Unfortunately, from Jalil's point of view, this effort seems to have emboldened Belhaj and heightened
tension between the eastern and western portions of the country. According to this source, after reviewing the federalist
problem, Dr Abd al-Nasser Shamata, the head of the Crisis Management for the NTC, believes that el-Keib, al Juwali, Oil
Minister Abdulrahman Ben Yezza, and the bulk of the cabinet should be replaced by people drawn from within the NTC,
individuals who are in touch with the concerns of the Libyan people of all tribes and political groups. In the opinion of this
source Jalil is factoring this position into his decision on el-Keib.
4. Regarding the existing relationships with international oil firms, Shamata told Jalil that for the most part the
existing fields are continuing to produce and the owners have worked out security arrangements with local political and
tribal leaders. However, since el-Keib and Ben Yezza have been unable to bring order to the national administration, it is
difficult for firms to initiate new projects, since it is not clear who has the authority or the desire to sign such
agreements. Shamata stated forcefully that the Prime Minister, whoever he is, must establish an orderly administration
before full advantage can be gained from the oil fields. In the meantime, Shamata warns that his office has found
evidence of corruption between local officials and international firms. In this regard, he stated that local representatives of
the Italian national oil firm (ENI) have made problematic arrangements with local officials in the western part of the
country, where their oil fields are located. He added that most of these ENI employees are Libyans, but he believes ENI
management in Italy is aware of this situation. Shamata pointed out, without additional comment, that Ben Yezza is a
long time senior official of ENI.
5. In the opinion this source, Shamata and Jalil are not planning to publicize these charges regarding ENI, at least
until they decide how best to move forward on el-Keib, whether to allow the Prime Minister more time to address his
problems, proceed with the vote of no confidence or quietly ask him to step down on his own.
6. (Source Comment: According to this source, el-Keib is under fire primarily as a result of his failure to bring
order to the National Army, disarm independent militias, and establish security throughout the country. The leading
opposition to el-Keib is based in the Political Issues committee of the NTC, and as many as 42 of the 73 active NTC
members will vote against el-Keib if Jalil brings this matter to a vote. The source warns that these numbers are provided
by members of this Political committee, who may have their own agenda. A two thirds majority is required for the no
confidence vote, however; several senior members of the NTC are reluctant to take such a step until a constituent
assembly has been elected. They do not want this to look like the decision of a small group of people.)
U.S. Department of State
Case No. F-2015-04841
Doc No. C05739878
Date: 05/13/2015
STATE DEPT. - PRODUCED TO HOUSE SELECT BENGHAZI COMM.
SUBJECT TO AGREEMENT ON SENSITIVE INFORMATION & REDACTIONS. NO FOIA WAIVER. STATE-SCB0045186 --- 
FYI
Sullivan, Jacob J <Sullivan.0@state.gov>
Friday, April 27, 2012 11:16 AM
FW: Talk with PM --- 
