
 --- 

Not sure who will be there but here is possibility:
 --- 

After Afghan Shift, Top U.S. Civilians Face Tricky Future By MARK LANDLER WASHINGTON — As General David H.
Petraeus takes command in Afghanistan, the two top American civilian officials in the war face an uncertain and tricky
future, working with a newly empowered military leader, under the gaze of an impatient president who has put them on
notice that his fractious war council needs to pull together.Richard C. Holbrooke, the Obama administration's special
representative to the region, and Karl W. Eikenberry, the ambassador to Afghanistan, both hung on to their jobs in the
uproar that followed Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal's career-ending quotes in Rolling Stone magazine.But privately, at least
one senior White House official suggested using General McChrystal's exit as an excuse for a housecleaning, according to
senior officials. That was rejected as too disruptive during a military campaign that relies heavily on civilian support,
these people said.ln recent days, other administration officials have begun floating the idea that Ambassador Eikenberry
might be replaced by Ryan C. Crocker, the highly regarded former ambassador in Iraq who forged a close partnership
with General Petraeus during the successful Iraq troop increase. Such a prospect is viewed as remote, given Mr.
Crocker's prestigious new post at Texas A&M University. But the fact that his name is being invoked underlines the
challenges that confront Ambassador Eikenberry, as he adapts to a new partner — one who has strong ideas about how
soldiers and diplomats should work together in war. It also illustrates the remarkably powerful role that General
Petraeus will assume in the nine-year-old war, setting him up as almost a viceroy in Afghanistan and a key broker in
negotiations between President Hamid Karzai and Pakistan over an eventual political settlement.Before General
Petraeus's arrival, some critics said the White House had created a problem by recruiting several forceful, ambitious
personalities and giving them jobs with overlapping responsibilities. Administration officials acknowledge that, as one
said, "there are obviously a number of substantial personalities on the team." But the White House believes that the
current lineup can mesh, and that a difficult war demands this much talent. Still, the McChrystal blow-up has
reverberated through the State Department. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton instructed Ambassador
Eikenberry and Mr. Holbrooke to take a hard look at the civilian team, two officials said. She is not wedded to the
current lineup if it continues to bog down in internecine battles, they said."You can't have a major shift in a civ-mil
structure without having the civilian side take a step back and look at everything," said a senior State Department
official, using the jargon for a civilian-military campaign.General Petraeus, whose appointment was approved 99-0 by
the Senate on Wednesday, took pains at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday to back a unified civilian and military
effort. He noted then that he had telephoned Mr. Holbrooke and would rendezvous with Ambassador Eikenberry in
Brussels, so the two could land in Kabul together."Holbrooke has been my wingman, to a great degree," General
Petraeus said in an interview. "We have had, and do have, a very good relationship." That role, he said, will now fall to
Ambassador Eikenberry.Ambassador Eikenberry was highly critical of the Pentagon's proposal last year to send 60,000
additional troops to Afghanistan, which led to a difficult relationship with General McChrystal. But in fact General
Petraeus was the true architect of the plan.The ambassador, a retired lieutenant general and former commander in
Afghanistan, graduated from West Point in 1973, a year ahead of General Petraeus, but they did not know each other at
the academy. The two share a scholarly bent: General Petraeus holds a Ph.D. from Princeton, while Ambassador
Eikenberry has master's degrees from Harvard and Stanford.While they were never assigned together, their careers
intersected twice. In Iraq, General Eikenberry led an assessment of Iraqi security forces while General Petraeus was
commanding the 101st Airborne Division in Mosul. When General Eikenberry was commander in Afghanistan, General
Petraeus led an assessment of Afghan National Security Forces.General Petraeus declined to discuss personnel issues,
while Ambassador Eikenberry and Mr. Holbrooke turned down requests for an interview. Mr. Crocker, now the dean of
the George Bush School of Government at Texas A&M, did not return a call for comment. For Mr. Holbrooke, the new
landscape is challenging in other ways. Officials said his job security was less in doubt than it was six months ago, when
his ouster was the subject of Washington chatter. Yet he has arguably become a less central player: Jacob J. Lew, a
deputy secretary of state, manages much of the civilian influx in Afghanistan that Mr. Holbrooke helped shape, while the
embassy in Kabul is carrying it out. Mr. Holbrooke's current portfolio has played to his weaknesses, his own allies admit.
He is best as a high-level negotiator, and not as comfortable with the nitty-gritty work of helping Afghanistan build an
economy.These days, Mr. Holbrooke has become a globe-trotting diplomat, trying to retain flagging European allies
while seeking to draw influential Muslim countries like Egypt into helping Afghanistan. At a recent conference of 35
countries in Madrid, Mr. Holbrooke drummed up more support from allies for the Afghan government's campaign to
reintegrate Taliban fighters into mainstream society.Mr. Karzai's longer-term effort to reconcile with Taliban leaders,
and his negotiations with Pakistan, could propel Mr. Holbrooke back into a central role. Were these talks to become
more serious, several officials said, Mr. Holbrooke's negotiating skills could be put to use, as a broker and guardian of
American interests. For now, though, as evidence of General Petraeus's influence, he will do most of the shuttling
between Kabul and Islamabad, the Pakistani capital.On his last visit to the region, Mr. Holbrooke met with Mr. Karzai
and with senior Pakistani officials, including the army chief of staff, Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. Mr. Holbrooke's past run-ins
with Mr. Karzai, several officials said, have not hindered his ability to deal with the Afghan leader, and Pakistani officials
said they trusted him. Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to Washington, said that Mr. Holbrooke took time to
understand Pakistan's concerns. "Ambassador Holbrooke is liked by some, admired by others and seen as effective, even
by those who may not like him," Mr. Haqqani said.Still, General Petraeus is indisputably the key player, and he has
wasted no time asserting his control. On a secure videoconference call last Saturday, a person familiar with the call said,
General Petraeus threw his support behind a costly, and controversial, plan to install temporary generators to supply
more electricity to Kandahar, the Taliban stronghold that is the next major American military target.Mr. Holbrooke and
Ambassador Eikenberry swiftly assented.
 --- 

This is the paper - see below.
cdm
 --- 

MS, when you ready, we have three calls that are pending from the last 60/90 minutes — Jones (unsecure), Cheryl and
Mullen (secure).
Jake recommends speaking to Cheryl first.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct) B6
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Yep
 --- 

MS, the crew is asking if you would like dinner soon — I wanted to check with you before they interrupted you in the cabin.
Lona Valmoro
S ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 


 --- 

Greetings from Nairobi. I'm at the end of week-long trip to Kampala, Kinshasa and now Nairobi. The trip has been very
productive and I will fill you in on some of the discussions I have been having when I return. In the meantime, I know
that there are a number of discussions with Dan Benjamin and others relating to a new more aggressive approach to
CVE and I wanted to update you on my thoughts in terms of how those critical discussions fit in with our overall
approach to strategic communications around the globe.
As you and I have discussed, it is essential that we become much more pro-active in all our communications efforts. To
put it bluntly, we are in an "information war" on all fronts. With the proliferation of media outlets and opportunities
around the world, we must fight aggressively to get, and maintain, our fair share of "consumer share of mind." Both our
adversaries and allies recognize the importance of this aspect of foreign policy and are adopting new ways of
communicating with foreign publics. Consumers everywhere are constantly facing a barrage of information and in some
cases misinformation and dis-information. In order to get our messages across and confront the threats posed by our
adversaries, we must develop a new sense of urgency in all our communications efforts. Much has been said and written
about the concept of "soldier diplomats". In the same vein, I believe we must empower a corps of "diplomat soldiers" to
help us gain ground in this new war.
While countering violent extremism is, and will remain, a key objective of our communications efforts we must apply the
same level of determination with respect to all communications. We must both aggressively promote positive stories
about the US and rapidly respond to attacks against us. In the past, our failure to respond to attacks and distortions has
diminished our credibility and undermined our ability to combat our adversaries. For example, had we not responded to
all the rumors and innuendos surrounding our relief efforts in Haiti, I believe we would have provided a fertile field for
AQ and others to continue to perpetuate the image of the US as an "invader".
Before I left for this trip, I convened a meeting of our top PD officers and told them that we must become much more
aggressive in our strategic communications programs and initiatives. We plan to implement daily calls between our new
regional PD DAS's and PAO's in the regions so we can monitor on a daily basis all stories about the USG. We will work
with the Posts to ensure that they have strategies for dealing with stories as they develop. I would also like to request
that you send a cable to all Chiefs of Mission informing of the new strategy and reminding them of their responsibilities
in this critical area. We will work on a draft for your review when you return.
Finally, we are developing new organizational solutions, modeled on an approach I saw at our Mission in Uganda, which
I think will greatly clarify roles and responsibilities with respect to in country communications not only within the
Mission, but across all government agencies within particular countries.
I will continue to update you as we move forward.
Hope your trip is going well. Look forward to greeting together when we are both back in DC.
JM
 --- 

Fyi, a bit of Congressipnal outreach.
Jm
 --- 

FYI we are putting out the following statement.
STATEMENT BY SECRETARY CLINTON
Bombing of the Shrine of Syed Ali Hujviri in Lahore
I was shocked and saddened by yesterday's attack on one of Pakistan's most popular places of worship, the Shrine of
Syed All Hujviri (Data Ganjbakhsh) in Lahore, which claimed the lives of many innocent Pakistanis.
The extremists have shown that they respect neither human dignity nor the fundamental religious values of Pakistani
society. Violating the sanctity of this revered shrine is a particularly sinister attempt to destabilize Pakistan and to
intimidate its people. The attackers will not succeed, as the Pakistani public refuses to be cowed by such violence.
We condemn this brutal crime and reaffirm our commitment to support the Pakistani people in their efforts to defend
their democracy from the violent extremists who seek to destroy it. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of
the victims and with all the people of Pakistan.
###
 --- 


 --- 

And also pls pass the salt
Thx
 --- 

MS,
Your appointment is scheduled for 7:00am, and we are scheduled to depart the hotel at
8:30am. Monica and I will be ready by 6:00am for anything you need. Thank you!
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

I will be out of the office until Tuesday, July 6th on official travel with the Secretary. I will be checking my email during
this time. If you need immediate assistance, please call 202-647-9572. Thank you!
 --- 

On your schedule
 --- 

Yes, it is on your line block for that day.
Lona Valmoro
S ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

I am currently traveling. If you need immediate assistance, please contact Nora Toiv (ToivNF@state.gov) or Joanne
Laszczych, (Laszczychl@state.gov) at 202-647-5548.
If it is an emergency after business hours, please reach out to our Operations Center to have them reach 'me.
Thank you
cdm
 --- 

Cc: Verveer, Melanne S
MS, we would like to do one photo at the plane with the local police as you are leaving if that's okay.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) (direct)
 --- 

Thank you for that I think it was his office rather than the Crown Prince himself who met your staff.
All is very well and the mobile phone project is really developing in a fantastic way can't wait for you to launch it in the
autumn
Cherie Blair
 --- 

NEA is asking for a statement from you on the sentencing of Syrian human rights activists. White House released a
statement on this. Draft below:
Statement by Secretary Clinton
Syrian Convictions of Human Rights Activists
The sentencing of Syrian lawyer Haitham Maleh to three years in prison is an example of Syria's failure to comply with
minimum international human rights standards. Convicting Maleh for exercising free speech and defending universal
human rights sends a clear message to the world that Syria does not tolerate peaceful forms of expression. We call on
the Syrian government to meet its responsibilities under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It
should demonstrate its commitment to international legal norms by releasing Maleh and other Syrian citizens, including
Muhannad al-Hassani and Ali Abdullah, who have been imprisoned solely for seeking to exercise their most fundamental
human rights.
###
 --- 

Fyi - happy to give more context.
 --- 

for having me join you for the trip. I can now add the Caucuses to the countries we've traveled to together!
You were magnificent. There is clearly much to be done in the region and I'll be following up from my end.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

1.4(B)
Barak
1.4(D)
B1
Slightly edited Background for Barak call:
On Gaza and the "controlled items" list, Israeli MFA Director General Yossi Gal and Ministry of Defense COGAT General
Eitan Dangot briefed Monday in Israel on a release of the new list, and newly announced international projects. (The
Declassify on: 07/05/2035
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Tuesday, July 6, 2010 7:54 AM
The Settlement Freeze That Never Was, And Never Will Be
http://maxblumenthal.com/2010/07/the-settlement-freeze-that-never-was-and-never-will-be/
The Settlement Freeze That Never Was, And Never Will Be
On 07.05.10, By Max Blumenthal
0
Linda Forsell's June 21 photos of ongoing construction in the Israeli settlement of Har Homa expose the illusion of
Netanyahu's settlement freeze
With the Israeli settlement moratorium scheduled to expire on September 26, the right-wing parties in Israel's coalition
government are exerting maximum pressure on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to block the policy's renewal. "Let's
get rid of the freeze and get back to building," declared Israeli Minister of Public Affairs and the Diaspora Yuli Edelstein on
Israel National Radio yesterday. "It's our land anyway!" (Edelstein lives in the settlement of Neve Daniel).
Back in the US, the former Israel lobbyist and ex-Clinton Assistant Secretary of State Martin Indyk took to the Washington
Post's op-ed page to praise Netanyahu and Barack Obama for ensuring that "there were zero building starts in the West
Bank settlements."
During the week of June 21, I traveled through the West Bank with Swedish photojournalist Linda Forsell to document
new settlement construction and the settlers' theft of water from Palestinian towns. Forsell took a series of photos at Har
Homa, a massive Israeli settlement towering over the Palestinian town of Beit Sarhour. Her photos show ongoing
construction of hundreds of new settlement units — documents of the settlement freeze sham.
0
Netanyahu authorized the building of new settlement units just days after he
announced the freeze in November 2009. He attempted to disguise new settlement construction by drawing a false
distinction between the West Bank and "parts of Jerusalem" like Har Homa that actually lie outside 1967 lines. As Israeli
government flack Mark Regev remarked in December 2009, "We've made a clear distinction between the West Bank and
Jerusalem. Jerusalem is our capital and will stay as such." With a few exceptions, Obama allowed this scheme to go
forward.
According to the Washington Post, Obama's meeting with Netanyahu this week will have more to do with reassuring
Jewish Democrats than with halting the wholesale colonization of the West Bank. As the Post's Anne Kornblut reported,
"The White House meeting will not dwell on some of the most difficult time-sensitive issues, including the expiration of a
moratorium on Israeli settlement construction in September." This may mean an end to the settlement freeze, but it was
only an illusion after all.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

MISSING
FYI traffic.
 --- 

Can be done whenever you are back. His office knows you are running just a few minutes late.
Lauren
 --- 

I will follow up on this today.
 --- 


 --- 

Madam Secretary,
Jake mentioned that you asked for more information about a proposal made in 2005 for a global CT organization, and he
asked me to find out a little about it. Below is some brief information on the proposal, which was made by Saudi Arabia:
The proposal made by the then crown prince (now king) in Feb. 2005 called for the establishment of an international
counterterrorism center "under the auspices of the UN." The purpose of the organization would be to, among other
things, "develop a mechanism for exchanging information and expertise between States" on a wide range of non-
military counterterrorism issues, encourage the establishment of national and regional centers, and provide assistance
to developing countries to deal with crises and terrorist acts. The center, as conceived in 2005, would also allow national
counterterrorism coordinators from different countries and regions to meet and share information and experiences.
This proposal was endorsed by the OIC (and OIC countries reaffirm their support for the center each year at the UNGA),
but has never received any serious consideration within the UN by non-OIC members. The Saudis continue to be
interested in implementing the proposal. Most significantly, recently there have been discussions between the UN and
Saudis as to how their proposal could be married with efforts to enhance the UN's capacity to support implementation
of the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy by allowing the UN Counter-Terrorism Task Force (CTITF) Office and the
different CTITF member entities to engage more actively and directly with CT experts/practitioners in capitals and have
multilateral CT consultations wherever necessary.
But S/CT mentioned that, if we were to move forward
on S/CT's CFO idea, we would hope to work closely with the Saudis.
Please let me know if you would like any further info.
Thanks,
Mike
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-1709
(cell)
 --- 

Strobe talbott returned your call through ops. Also, colombian president uribe has put in a request to speak with you.
He would like to thank you for your public statements on the free trade agreement.
 --- 

MS, the Spanish FM just called through Ops -- he is boarding a plane from Cuba in about 30-40 minutes and would like to
speak with you as soon as possible. Would you like Ops to connect the call to the residence or wait until tomorrow?
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct) B6
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Yes, doing now.
Lona Valmoro
S ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

Are the Mideast Policy Team!
by Leslie H. Gelb
July 7, 2010 I 2:38pm
I ri==IPresident Barack Obama meets with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the Oval
Office of the White House, July 6, 2010. (Gary Fabiano / Sipa Press) Obama's bow to Netanyahu was
just the latest in a series of disastrous missteps in U.S. policy toward Israel. Leslie H. Gelb on who's to
blame—and how the White House can get back on course.
Whoever advised President Obama to flay Israel publicly until this week should be fired. Only advisers with no experience
in dealing with Israel could have believed that Israeli leaders like Prime Minister Netanyahu would bow to public attacks.
And whoever advised Mr. Obama to kneel rhetorically to Mr. Netanyahu in public on Tuesday should also be fired. The
only thing accomplished by this embarrassing tactic was to put Israel in a position to call the shots on Mideast policy for
the rest of Obama's first term.
The real enemy of a negotiated settlement in the Mideast is not time; it's failure.
Were the culprits the non-foreign policy White House intimates — chief of staff Rahm Emanuel and political honcho David
Axelrod? Axelrod knows nothing about this, and worse, Emanuel thinks he does because he lived in Israel. Was George
Mitchell, the president's Mideast negotiator, the brains behind the foolishness? Surely, he's had enough experience
working with Israelis to know better. Did General James Jones, the National Security Adviser, remain silent, again? And of
course, where was Secretary of State Hillary Clinton? Strangely for someone so adept at pleasing Israel's constituents in
America, she spent a lot of time this past year publicly beating up on Israeli leaders. Has she been led astray by the pro-
Arab contingent of the State Department?
•Martin Indyk: New Hope for Mideast Peace
•Peter Beinart: Netanyahu's Latest Insult Or is the guilty party none other than President Obama himself? The more we
find out about who makes decisions in the White House on every subject from nuclear weapons to coloring of Easter
eggs, it turns out to be the man in the Oval Office himself. He's the expert. He's the decider. He invites everyone to state
his or her piece or peace, then he tells them what to do — and seemingly without question, they do his bidding.
Mr. Obama started his White House tenure from a near-zero base of foreign policy knowledge and no experience in the
Middle East. It was easy enough to guess this blissful state from his earliest decisions. He came out of the box demanding
that Israel agree to suspend construction on the West Bank as a precondition for direct negotiations with the Palestinians.
Anyone who knew anything about this situation surely would have told the president that the chances of Mr. Netanyahu
agreeing to this "proposal" were zero, or minus zero. No Israeli leader, even a dovish one, would ever dream of beginning
negotiations by conceding his major bargaining card. As the teenagers say, what were Obama and his advisers thinking?
And yes, after the Israelis publicly humiliated Vice President Biden during his trip to the Holy Land by announcing they
would start new construction in East Jerusalem, Washington had to respond vehemently. The Israelis had been arrogant
and stupid on this one. They had weakened American power in the region. No U.S. president could let them get away with
it. Clinton and others made strong public statements of criticism, and those were fine. But Mr. Obama then allowed Mr.
Netanyahu to come ahead with his planned visit to D.C. — and publicly humiliated him. The U.S. president let the Israeli
prime minister cool his heels for hours before meeting with him, then wouldn't shake his hand when he departed. There's
no surer way to unite a nation behind its leader, even a controversial one like Netanyahu, than to have a foreign leader
humiliate him.
This brilliant tactic — thought of by Obama's advisers or the president himself — accomplished two things. It stiffened Israeli
backs even further against being conciliatory about starting talks with the Palestinians. The Israeli government was not
about to cave to American pressures. It also galvanized Israeli supporters in the United States — in particular within
conservative parts of the Jewish community and the Republican Party. There went Mr. Obama's support for pressing
Israel even in private.
To top this all off with Tuesday's meeting, full of smiles and the adoption of Israeli-desired language on almost every topic,
only made matters worse. It made the situation look as if the American president had been cowed by Jewish control of
. .
American politics. That certainly pleased American and Israeli hawks, but it did not please others who want to see
genuine progress in Mideast talks.
There is a time and place for Washington to put pressure on Israel. Mr. Obama and his team picked every wrong time and
place. The right occasion to squeeze is when the negotiations have reached the point where both sides have given and
where both must give more to close the deal. Only at that point does pressure make sense. All parties would get a real
shot at peace in return for their concessions.
To be sure, many ask at this point — How do you get to that point? The answer is not to browbeat the parties to scurry to
the negotiating table. That tactic simply never pays off. The answer is to build conditions beyond the negotiating table,
conditions in the political community in both Israel and Palestine, that would support compromises at the table. The British'
pushed the Catholics and Protestants to make concessions year after year, only to fail time and again, only to further
inflame feelings all around and spur greater violence. Finally, London focused on getting Protestant and Catholic women
to form common groups to support compromise. London did as much with various business communities that evolved into
backers of mutual concessions as well. Only then did parties know that they had support for compromises, their
negotiations got somewhere, and they reached agreement. That's what needs to be done between Israel and the
Palestinians.
We hear time and again that the enemy of peace in the Middle East is time, and that time is running out. Perhaps that is
what has caused Mr. Obama and his team to misstep so badly; they think it's a race against the clock. Do something now
or fail. But the real enemy of a negotiated settlement in the Mideast is not time; it's failure. Neither Israel nor the
Palestinians nor the United States can afford to fail again. After yet another failure, it could well result in perpetual
violence.
To set his Arab-Israeli policy on a sensible course, Mr. Obama needs to search for new advisors who know how to get
things done in the Middle East, hire them, and listen to them.
Leslie H. Gelb, a former New York Times columnist and senior government official, is author of Power Rules: How
Common Sense Can Rescue American Foreign Policy (HarperCollins 2009), a book that shows how to think about and
use power in the 21st century. He is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Get a head start with the Morning Scoop email. It's your Cheat Sheet with must reads from across the Web. Get it.
For inquiries, please contact The Daily Beast at editorialthedailvbeast.com.
RL: http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-07-07/obama-gets-more-bad-advice-on-israel-leslie-gelb/p/
 --- 

She will be around/reachable the rest of the evening.
Ops also has her phone number on file.
1###
 --- 

They were very grateful. Thanks.
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
 --- 

Lowey
FYI.
 --- 

Hillary,
I would like to share the outcome of the meeting I had with Netanyahu today. I need some guidance from you urgently
and before I talk to SG (at Netanyahu's short fuse request).
I am reachable through Ops.
Many thanks,
Susan
 --- 

Yes! A great trip.
On Thu, Jul 8, 2010 at 9:02 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
 --- 

Below and attached is a proposed draft for a speech next Thursday at CFR. You'll recall that we discussed this with you
at the last speech meeting. The idea is to give a speech one year after your last CFR address that updates and amplifies
the frame you outlined, and fills it in with the work of the past year. The speech will also underscore the continuity
between your speech and the National Security Strategy.
The below draft still needs a good bit of work, but we have between now and next Thursday to get it into shape. AMS
was initially skeptical, but I think she believes the speech is heading in the right direction (she'll write you with specific
comments ... I have my own suggestions for further improvement) and that on balance it should be given. Derek is a
strong proponent of the speech, and Jim, who has not read a draft, embraced the concept.
***DRAFT***
SECRETARY OF STATE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON REMARKS AT COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS WASHINGTON, DC
JULY 15, 2010
B5
B5
B5
B5
B
-
Thank you.
###
 --- 

Are you up for that given your other demands?
 --- 


 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Tim Rieser said today our allocation in the Senate for FY11 is $2.6 billion below our request. Haven't seen a
break out of the numbers yet, but that is far better than how the House treated us. We are expecting the
Senate to mark-up State/Foreign ops on July 22nd.
 --- 

You have many better things to think about this Friday night, and I hope
my 2 cents on the speech.
But let me add
Best,
AM
 --- 

FYI. We are revising call sheet for call to Karzai - potentially Sunday.
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Saturday, July 10, 2010 3:24 PM
Re: Your Phone Call to President Karzai
1.4(D)
B1
Pakistanis will go to Kabul just before the conference to try to bring it home. Checking with Holbrooke to see what is
necessary on Pakistani side.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, July 11, 2010 10:06 AM
H: fyi, leaked Luntz poll on Bibi policies; and many congrats to Huma! Sid
Below is a transcript from Israeli TV News Channel Ten on a leaked poll taken last week by Frank Luntz. Here's a
summary:
1. 56% of Americans agree with the claim that there is a humanitarian crisis in Gaza;
2. 43% of Americans agree with the claim that people in Gaza are starving;
3. 34% of Americans support the Israeli operation against the Flotilla;
4. 20% of Americans "felt support" for Israel following announcement of easing of Gaza closure.
Frank Luntz analyses Netanyahu's media performance in the flotilla affair
The figures are troubling and worrisome. If that is the situation with our great friend the US, it is easy to imagine the
situation in other, somewhat less sympathetic countries.
Channel Ten TV News, July 1 2010 20:38
Yaacov Eilon (host): Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is considered to make an extremely persuasive presentation in
the world press. But a professional analysis by a US expert presented yesterday to his senior aides strongly criticizes him.
Netanyahu's messages on the flotilla caused more harm than good. Our political correspondent Chico Menashe has
obtained the report.
Chico Menashe: Criticism of Prime Minister Netanyahu's current PR messages and Israeli PR in general comes from the
international elite of media consultants and pollsters and from the mouth of Frank Luntz, considered one of the leading
American political consultants, a Republican pollster, a consultant to many governments throughout the world and to
dozens of the biggest corporations in the US. He was asked by the Jewish organization The Israel Project to check the
opinions of the American public on the messages Israel issued to the world during and after the flotilla events. The result
is a harsh document that primarily criticizes the media strategy of the person considered Israel's number one
propagandist in the world, Prime Minister Netanyahu.
Netanyahu: Once again Israel faces hypocrisy and a biased rush to judgment.
Chico Menashe: Every time Israeli speakers begin with accusing the international community, writes Luntz, they
lose their audience. For example, Netanyahu's comments after the flotilla about the world hypocrisy were rejected by
most of the American participants who listened to them. The findings were presented last night to senior members of
Netanyahu's Bureau. Luntz checked the opinions with focus groups, not a poll. He warns of a dangerous slide in the
public opinion of the only country considered pro-Israeli, the U.S. Israel misses simple opportunities to change world
public opinion, he writes, and the consequences are significant. The American public increasingly hesitates to accept
arguments that support Israeli positions.
Ehud Barak: There is no hunger in Gaza and no humanitarian crisis.
Netanyahu: There's no shortage of food, there's no shortage of medicine, there's no shortage of other goods.
Chico Menashe: Luntz says Israel must immediately stop using the argument that there is no hunger and no
humanitarian crisis in Gaza. He says this fatally destroys Israel's credibility in light of the images on the
television screens. Israel must admit that there is a problem, he says, to gain the listeners' sympathy [emphasis
mine]. Luntz finds the troubling figure that 56% of participants agree with the claim that there is a humanitarian crisis in
Gaza, and no less astonishing is that 43% of participants from the American public agree with the claim that people in
Gaza are starving. But even lifting the closure that was supposed to improve Israel's image missed the opportunity,
according to Luntz.
Netanyahu: Yesterday an important decision was made by the security cabinet. Its meaning is clear. On the one hand,
allowing civilian goods into Gaza, and on the other hand maintaining the military blockade of Hamas.
Chico Menashe: The statement by Netanyahu's bureau of lifting the closure missed the opportunity to gain
support in international public opinion [emphasis mine]. Only 20% of the Americans polled felt support of Israel
following the statement. According to Lunt, this is the summary of the flotilla damage in American public opinion: Only
34% of the American public support the Israeli operation against the flotilla, and he says that is a dangerously low
percentage.
 --- 

Ms: dep. steinberg has put in a request through ops to speak with you. He says it can be unsecure.
###
 --- 

Fyi - we are putting out the following today.
 --- 

Ms:
I apologize if this email is duplicating anyone else's efforts (we are trying to leave huma alone today!) Jake has put forth
a recommendation for you to call karzai today, and also for you to speak with holbrooke in advance of that call. There is
an updated call sheet which has been faxed to your residence in chappaqua, and should be there now.
Let me know if I can help in any other way.
###
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

The gentleman you have talked to Bill Burns about has apparently gone to his country's interests section because he is
unhappy with how much time it has taken to facilitate his departure. This could lead to problematic news stories in the
next 24 hours. Will keep you posted.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

B6
 --- 

http://www.bloomberq.com/news/2010-07-14/americans-disappoving-of-obama-policies-poised-to-enable-republican-
dains.html
Americans Disapproving Obama Poised to Enable
Republican Gains
By John McCormick and Catherine Dodge - Jul 14, 2010
•
• Email
• Share
• Print
Chart: Poll Results
Attachment: Poll results and methodology
Americans disapprove of U.S. President Barack Obama's handling of almost every major issue and are
deeply pessimistic about the nation's direction, offering a bullish environment for Republicans in the
November congressional elections.
A majority or plurality disapproves of Obama's management of the economy, health care, the budget
deficit, the overhaul of financial market regulations and the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted July 9- 12. In addition, almost 6 in 10 respondents say the war in
Afghanistan is a lost cause.
Almost two-thirds say they feel the nation is headed in the wrong direction, an even more sour
assessment than in March when 58 percent felt that way. Two-thirds of independent voters are
pessimistic, while just 56 percent of Democrats offer a vote of confidence.
"They don't see any solutions in sight," said J. Ann Selzer, president of Selzer & Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-
based firm that conducted the nationwide survey. "They have been hammered by the economy and there
is a disconnect between the lives Americans are living and Washington. They seem to have lost hope."
Poll respondents are divided on their congressional preference between Democrats and Republicans,
with both sides getting 43 percent support. Among those who say they are most likely to vote,
Republicans are favored, 48 percent to 40 percent. The Republican advantage is even greater among
likely voters who view the election as exceptionally important, with Republicans beating Democrats 56
percent to 34 percent.
Control of Congress
For the Democrats, whd control Congress and the White House, the survey shows the potential 'for losses
in November, when voters will fill all 435 House seats, 36 Senate seats and 37 governorships. The
outcome could affect °Pam's ability to move his agenda through Congress for the two years leading up
to his own 2012 re-election bid.
The fate of incumbents will depend to some extent on what happens to the economy in the next four
months and whether unemployment drops much from its current 9.5 percent. A rising stock market could
help as well. So far this year, the S&P 500 stock index has declined 1.8 percent.
The public's disenchantment with the president's Policies doesn't extend to voter feelings about Obama
himself, as he gets a job approval rating of 52 percent and personally is viewed favorably by 55 percent.
Obama, 48, remains more popular than any of the Republican figures tested in the poll and is topped only
by Secretary of State :-- ;:!aity ant.cn and General Da,,,td Petraeos, the new commander of U.S. forces in
Afghanistan, among a list of 15 people and political parties reviewed.
Republican Leaders
The only bright spot for Republican candidates is for Louisiana Governor Eiob%) 1i:tele!, who gets a 32
percent favorable rating and an 18 percent unfavorable grade. Better-known party leaders such as former
vice presidential candidate :a-et..n and former House Speaker Netf,ri: CirigPait both have negative
ratings that outweigh the positive views.
Although turnout in midterm elections is historically lower than in presidential races, the electorate is
interested. Four- fifths of Americans who plan to vote say November's election is very or exceptionally
important.
The likelihood to vote is strongest among older voters, Republicans and those with the highest incomes.
Among those 55 and older. three-quarters say they will definitely vote, compared with 48 percent of those
younger than 35. Four-fifths of Republicans say they will definitely vote, compared with 65 percent of
Democrats and 62 percent of independents.
Referendum on °barna
Seeking to capitalize on the intensity expressed by voters, Republicans want to make the election a
national referendum on Obama and the party in power, while the White House and Democrats argue it is
about going forward, rather than backward to failed policies.
The challenge for Democrats will be to translate their vision of a better future into more positive feelings
about the economy among voters. In the poll, Republicans have the advantage among the independents
often critical to winning elections. Among independents likely to vote, Republican congressional
candidates are preferred to Democrats, 50 percent to 29 percent.
"Anything that has been tried hasn't resulted in making anything better in the world where ordinary people
live," Selzer said. "That's a bad scenario for incumbents of the majority party."
Incumbent Disadvantage
A third of poll participants say they would be less likely to vote for a candidate who has served in
Congress for many years. About one-fifth of likely voters say the election is more about sending a
message, while three-quarters say it is about picking the party that has the best ideas.
"I don't know what these people are thinking in Washington," says poll respondent Jeff Lockman, 41, a
professional golfer and Republican from Malvern, Pennsylvania. "They are going in 10 different directions
and they really don't know what to focus on."
The proportion who feel the nation is headed in the wrong direction is about the same as at this poin't in
1994, when Republicans took control of Congress, and 2006, when Democrats took over.
The public also has soured on Obama's foreign-policy priority, the war in Afghanistan. While the president
has ordered an expansion of forces to turn the tide in a conflict where he says the U.S. has a critical stake,
58 percent say it is a lost cause, compared with 36 percent who say it can still be won. A slim majority of
Republicans -- 52 percent -- say the U.S. can still win in Afghanistan, while 71 percent of Democrats say
the conflict is lost.
Afghanistan Withdrawal
Six in 10 Americans say it would be best to stick with Obarna's plan to start withdrawing forces in July
2011, while one-third say they remain open to keeping the same number of troops there, or even adding
additional forces.
Reflecting the belief among many that the war cannot be won, a third of Americans say they have become
less supportive of the effort there in recent months.
The Bloomberg National Poll is based on interviews with 1,004 U.S. adults ages 18 or older. Percentages
based on the full sample may have a maximum margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.
:4:?,r;yr• '.
3cwrra:1, who studies public opinion at the ,A;-necicar Entarpr:F.:e institute, a public-policy research
group in Washington, cails the poll "very, very grim news for the Democrats."
At the same time, she says, one silver lining for Democrats is that Republicans have yet to convince
voters that they have a plan.
Obarna Visit
One signpost for Democrats in the poll is the finding that just 26 percent of Americans say it would help a
Democratic candidate in their area to get a visit from Obama, while 20 percent say it would hurt the
candidate and 54 percent say it wouldn't matter or they don't know.
Obama's worst ratings are for his handling of the budget deficit, where 59 percent disapprove and 37
percent approve. It's his worst grade for that subject in any of four Bloomberg polls taken since
September 2009. The Obama administration expects a record budget deficit this year of more than $1.5
trillion, or 10.6 percent of GDP, according to projections the White House released in February. It was
$1.4 trillion for the 2008-2009 fiscal year, which covers the end ofGecrge W. Bush's presidency, and
Obama has said that the current fiscal shortfall as well as theunemployment rate are inheritances from his
Republican predecessor's administration.
"My biggest fear is we have people in government who don't have a clue about what is going on in the
economy," says poll respondent Jim Heeter, 66, from Glendale, Arizona. "They have never run a business
or had to make a payroll."
Economy, Health Care
Slim majorities disapprove of Obama's handling of the economy and health care. When it comes to
creating jobs, he gets 46 percent approval, addressing problems on Wall Street, 42 percent support,
running the war in Afghanistan, 46 percent approve, and managing the BP Plc oil spill, 46 percent
support.
Forty-five percent say they have become more supportive in recent months of tougher regulations for Wall
Street. The momentum is heading in the opposite direction from the White House and Democrats on most
other issues.
Almost half say they have become less supportive in recent months of federal money being loaned to
automotive companies to help them stay in business, while 37 percent have become less supportive of
the health-care overhaul passed by Congress earlier this year. A majority, 61 percent, say the nation
should wait and see how the health-care legislation works or leave it alone, while 37 percent want to see it
repealed.
Arizona Immigration Law
Almost half of Americans say they have also grown more supportive of allowing local law enforcement to
detain anyone who can't produce proof of citizenship when stopped for an offense, as is contemplated in
an Arizona law. Cbama has criticized the measure and the Justice Department has announced it plans to
sue Arizona.
At least half of respondents also say they would be less likely to support candidates who voted to give
financial assistance to the banking or automobile industries.
Americans are roughly divided on whether they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who
voted against extending unemployment benefits because of concern over the cost. A measure providing
such support worth $34 billion is stalled in Congress.
Clinton Popularity
The disaffection with Obarna and Democrats doesn't carry over to all Democrats. Hillary Clinton, 62, is
viewed favorably by 61 percent of respondents and a quarter of Americans, including 30 percent of
Republicans and 21 percent of Democrats, say the nation would be in a better place if she had been
elected president.
The Tea Party movement, which has been mainly associated with Republicans, has lukewarm support in
the poll. A majority of 58 percent of all respondents says it would make no difference to them if a
candidate was backed by Tea Party activists, while a third of Republicans say that kind of backing would
make a candidate more appealing to them.
Those who are more likely to think the Tea Party is a simplistic and misguided movement -- 44 percent of
all respondents -- include Democrats, 65 percent, and those with the highest incomes, 52 percent.
Independent voters are divided on whether it is misguided or has rightly identified that the nation would be
better served by reduced federal government, compared with 39 percent overall.
 --- 

Maariv: Netanyahu won't meet Clinton; 'sources' say she
"isn't relevant"
Didi Remez I July 1,2010 at 15:25 I Categories: Diplomacy I URL: http://wp.me/pH1QV-Ep
Do they honestly think that publicizing a quote like this, on record or off, works to their advantage?
Israeli diplomatic [euphemism for Prime Minister's Office -- DR] sources said: "Clinton isn't relevant and
is out of the circle of influence. Mitchell has taken over the peace process to a great extent and Obama, in
any event, is the important person in this story because he is the one who decides."
etanyahu to meet Obama, but not Clinton
Eli Bardenstein, Maariv, July 1 2010 [page 7; Hebrew original here and at bottom of post]
rime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is to leave next week for Washington, where he will meet
with US President Barack Obama. Rather curiously, he is not scheduled to meet with Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton in the course of his visit to Washington.
Contrary to his previous visit in March, this time the US administration intends to create the impression,
outwardly at least, that the severe crisis in the relationship has passed and that the relations between the
two countries are as strong as ever. In order to bolster that impression, the two leaders will meet the media
together and will be photographed. As opposed to the previous time, Netanyahu will also be put up at Blair
House, the official White House guesthouse, and not at a hotel.
That said, officials in Washington are waiting apprehensively for the answers that Netanyahu will provide in
the course of the meeting, which is expected to address the transition from the proximity talks that are at an
impasse to direct negotiations. Obama, apparently, will demand that Netanyahu agree to extend the
construction freeze in Judea and Samaria beyond the September 26 expiration date in hope of securing PA
Chairman Abu Mazen's consent to begin direct talks with Israel. For the time being, the forum of seven is
divided over this issue.
Read more of this post
 --- 

They got cloture (60 votes exactly). Will vote on final passage today.
 --- 

http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/16/opinion/16iht-edcohen.html?2=1&emc=eta18,pagewanted=print
July 15, 2010
Inners arid Losers
Ey ROGER COHEN
NEW YORK — The Clintons threw a big Washington bash on June 30 for Hillary Clinton's longtime aide, Hume Abedin,
and what struck one of the many guests was the absence of anyone from President Obama's tight White House inner
circle.
Congressional heavyweights thronged the garden of the Clinton spread on Embassy Row, including House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi. The city's big powerbrokers and various State Department honchos were there for a party marking Abedin's
marriage to Congressman Anthony Weiner of New York. But White House insiders stayed away.
Well, as Bill Clinton told CNN recently, "I did everything I could to defeat President Obama and I wanted Hillary to win" —
old wounds do not heal overnight. Indeed, they may not heal at all. When my informant said something about the old
grievances not going away, the response from the hosts went something like this:
No, they don't and they never will. But, we're public servants and suckers for punishment, so we soldier on.
Speaking of soldiering on, Mrs. Clinton left for Europe the next day and while Americans celebrated July 4, she was in
Armenia trying to sort out the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute and.— equally thankless task — mediate between Armenia and
Turkey on their disagreement over what happened in 1915.
You've got to salute Hillary. She's got guts to go with that razor-sharp mind. It's a heck of a job being secretary of state
when the White House puts a tight collar around the big issues — Afghanistan, Iran, Israel-Palestine and Iraq — and
you're left with Nagorno-Karabakh, disputed Ottoman crimes of World War I and, if you're lucky, U.S. bases on Okinawa.
The situation might be slightly less troubling if the boys in the White House — and they are overwhelmingly boys — were
foreign-policy heavyweights. They're not. Indeed, I'm told Henry Kissinger refers to them as "the kids."
Chief among them, according to my colleague Helene Cooper, is Denis McDonough, the National Security Council's chief
of staff. Earlier this month, Cooper wrote: "Forget Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton or Defense Secretary Robert
M. Gates. When it comes to national security, Mr. Obama's inner circle is so tight it largely consists of Mr. McDonough, a
40-year-old from Minnesota who is unknown to most Americans."
I do know McDonough and I've spent a fair amount of time in Minnesota. He has many of the state's qualities: positive,
brisk, can-do, affable and efficient.
But am I reassured when! read that Obama's national-security inner circle is comprised of him? Nope. He was a great
guy to control the foreign-policy side of a campaign — as he did to perfection for Obama — but he's not a great guy to
think big about the world.
Thinking big and bold is required right now. The clock is ticking on momentous presidential decisions. Among them are an
Afghan extrication that will salvage a minimum of core U.S. security interests — which will require a bruising negotiation
with the Taliban — and what to do about Iran when it becomes apparent by the end of this year that the latest sanctions
have changed nothing. Obama's apparent carte blanche to Israel this month on Iran was disturbing.
Then there's Israel-Palestine, where Obama can't decide whether the cost of being an honest broker pressure on both
sides — is worth the domestic heat he takes for being critical of Israel, with the result that he's zigzagging to little effect.
After firing Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, Obama said he would tolerate debate but not division. My sense is his foreign-
policy house is divided — and the weaker for it. Gen. James Jones, his national security adviser, speaks fine French —
the French love that — but he's left most people unconvinced. Tom Donilon, Jones' deputy, dances around the vacuum
as best he can. Like McDonough, David Axelrod and Rehm Emanuel were brilliant campaign strategists, but should they
be foreign-policy strategists?
In Clinton, Obama has a Baker-class secretary of state. For how much longer is he going to delegate her to Nagorno-
Karabakh? The State Department, a repository of Other underused talent, cannot be the White House annex for non-
critical affairs.
Back in the 1860s, James Gordon Bennett, then the editor of the New York Herald, a forebear of the International Herald
Tribune, gave these instructions to an intrepid foreign correspondent named Henry Morton Stanley:
"Draw a thousand pounds now; and when you have gone through that, draw another thousand, and when that is spent,
draw another thousand, and when you have finished that, draw another thousand, and so on; but, FIND LIVINGSTONE."
He was referring to the lost African explorer, David Livingstone, whom Stanley eventually tracked down on Lake
Tanganyika, uttering the immortal words: "Doctor Livingstone, I presume?"
That sort of journalism's gone out of fashion. So we can all thank Rolling Stone for opening its pocketbook and telling
Michael Hastings to do whatever it took to find General McChrystal. In his brilliant piece, Hastings did that. He also found
something else: an Afghan policy as fragmented as the team Obama running it.
McChrystal's gone, but not the dysfunction. A blow-up, I presume? Watch this space.
 --- 

Brown, Collins and Snowe voted yes. Feingold voted no.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI — the Colombians are starting to brief the press on evidence of FARC activity in Venezuela. We'll monitor over night
and tomorrow.
 --- 

RELEASE IN
PART B5
 --- 

Mitchell meets with BN tomorrow in Jerusalem, Abbas Saturday, BN again Saturday, then to Cairo for Mubarak on
Sunday.
They will take the call down.
 --- 

8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:30 am MEETING w/SENATOR JOHNNY ISAKSON
10:00 am Secretary's Outer Office
10:15 am MEETING ON CUBA ISSUES
11:00 am Secretary's Conference Room
11:00 am OFFICE TIME
11:20 am Secretary's Office
11:20 am PHOTOS w/YOUTH AWARDS HONOREES
11:30 am Treaty Room, r Floor
11:45 am LUNCHEON FOR THE CEOS OF THE BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE
12:30 pm James Monroe Room, 8' Floor
12:30 pm DEPART State Department
En route Washington National Airport
12:50 pm ARRIVE Washington National Airport
1:00 pm DEPART Washington National Airport via US Airways Shuttle #2172
En route New York, NY
2:25 pm ARRIVE New York, New York-LaGuardia Airport
2:35 pm DEPART New York-LaGuardia Airport
En route Private Residence
3:00 pm PHONE INTERVIEW w/MARK LANDLER, NEW YORK TIMES
3:15 pm En route Private Residence
3:25 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
FYI:
12:00 pm YOUTH AWARDS CEREMONY
2:00 pm Benjamin Franklin Room, 8' Floor
###
 --- 

B6
On another note, I hope we might have time to chat briefly before I leave State — maybe when you're in the office in
mid-August. Two issues I want to discuss: 1) sports diplomacy 2) a series of speeches I'd love you to give on young
people (the public diplomacy speech could be one piece).
I'd also be happy to share some observations about this place if that might be useful to you.
Safe travels.
Lissa Muscatine
Senior Advisor and Director of Speechwriting
Department of State
202-647-9841
 --- 

Wants to talk with you re Afghanistan and his displeasure with Holbrooke. They got into a verbal sparring match at the
hearing. I thought holbrooke was polite and responsive.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

And pasted below is the exchange between Corker and Holbrooke:
CORKER:
Mr. Chairman, thank you.
I want to thank the ambassador for coming. I know he has a wealth of knowledge and certainly served our country for
many years.
A number of us wrote a letter to you asking for this hearing, and my guess is you might have had hearings any way.
But the reason we wrote the letter -- bipartisan letter -- was to provide Congress and the American people with a
definition of the end state for our civilian operations in Afghanistan, clear objectives for the civilian mission, and a
detailed plan for achieving those objectives, and the very specific, measurable metrics being used to measure progress
towards achieving those objectives.
I have to say, I've been here for an hour and 10 minutes. I have heard nothing -- nothing -- about that. And while I
respect the ambassador, I've heard a lot of process. I've heard a lot about meetings. I have no earthly idea -- no earthly
idea what our objectives are on the civilian front.
And I don't know if you have time to begin doing that right now, but this has so far been an incredible waste of time,
from the standpoint of -- of hearing, though.
And I have tremendous respect for you, but maybe we have the wrong witness. I hope we'll have maybe Secretary
Clinton and Eikenberry, maybe Crocker. I know he's supposed to come.
But could you answer the question that was the purpose of these hearings in the first place?
HOLBROOKE:
I'm sorry. You don't feel that I've told you what our civilian programs are?
CORKER:
You've told me a lot of process. I'd like to know a definition of what our end state is for civilian operations, the very
question we asked when we set this hearing up, is in Afghanistan, clear objectives for the -- for the -- detailed plan for
achieving those. I'd like to hear you talk about that.
I mean, I'm glad we have a lot of interagency folks here, but I'm not hearing anything that talks about where we're
going.
I'd also like to know how the withdrawal date that's been set affects that and how it affects those we're working with
in the country.
HOLBROOKE:
First of all, Senator Corker, I believe I have discussed our civilian programs in very considerable detail within the
constraints of time, but we did prepare a report for this committee earlier this year, which was entered into the record
and which I will be happy to enter into the record again, if you wish. And you can go through every one of the programs.
The reason I brought my colleagues with me was to show that this was a whole-of-government, an unprecedented
effort.
Now, on the specifics, since you want specifics, Afghanistan is an agricultural country. It exported agricultural products
until 1978 and the Soviet invasion. We are trying to rebuild it. This was not being done for the first seven years of this
war.
We have -- your -- your committee has given us a great deal of money for agriculture. And we are spending it wisely in
a joint AID- USDA effort, which Senator Lugar has particularly been involved in, food, seeds, cash-for-work programs,
encouraging alternatives to opium production.
HOLBROOKE:
Secondly, rule of law. We are spending -- we are spending the money you have authorized for us to create a justice
system which can cut into the Taliban's propaganda about corruption and lack of a justice system.
Third, counter-narcotics. We have ended poppy eradication, a radical change, because all we were doing by
eradicating poppy seeds, poppy crops, was driving farmers, poor farmers, into the hands of the Taliban.
Fourth, a major program of subnational governance, where we are putting aid directly to the district level.
Fifth, a major effort in specific areas, some of which were alluded to earlier, such as electricity for Kandahar. Senator
Kerry asked earlier about Kandahar. One of the major issues here is to bring electricity to the people as a benefit of the
international presence.
The whole range of activities we have is designed to support the country and to support General Petraeus' counter-
insurgency effort. He and I -- I was his counterpart until two weeks ago when he moved to Kabul. We have worked
intimately in an effort to create a joint civilian-military effort. And I am happy to provide you with every detail you wish
in private briefings on behalf of me and my team.
Point number two in regard to the end state issue you raised. I want to be clear on the difference between end state
and exit strategy.
If we -- this is my personal view, senator -- but if we walk away from Afghanistan, again, as we did 21 years ago, the
consequences will be similarly catastrophic, because of the unique strategic position of Afghanistan and the reaction
that would have in Pakistan, China, India and the country to Afghanistan's west, Iran, as well as the larger region that
includes Russia, Saudi Arabia, India, and even extending to Western Europe, which is concerned about terrorism from
that region, just as much as we are.
So, I hope that when we talk about end state, we talk about a sustainable end state which involves continued
American economic and development assistance, and we continue to fulfill our obligations to train the police and the
military. This will not be cheap. But it will be a fraction of the money that is now being authorized and appropriated for
the military campaign.
When we will be able to transition to that is impossible for me or anyone to say. But it won't be on a single day. It will
be a gradual process. And that is what the review in December and the president's decision-making will focus on.
CORKER:
In our foreign policy, generally speaking -- I know we've had some rough times over the last several years -- it's been
something that we've been able to address in a bipartisan way. And I think that the issues that you're dealing with, that
we're dealing with in Afghanistan are incredibly tough.
I still don't -- I haven't understood what the administration was saying in the beginning. That's not to be critical of
them. I just don't understand. I still don't understand. I've met with you and your staff over at the State Department. It's
just incredibly vague to me.
And I think what we are doing, we have partners, which include the Pakistanis and everybody around, that they don't
know what we're doing. They don't know when we're leaving. They think we're leaving shortly, I think. We've just had
colleagues who have come from there.
We've had a -- we've got a president there that's having to play both sides, because he wants to survive, because he
doesn't know what our intentions are. The Pakistanis don't know what our intentions are, I don't think. And they're
making accommodations on both sides.
So, I just have to tell you, I send letters to parents and spouses. And what I feel because of this lack of clarity is that we
are in Afghanistan, because we're in Afghanistan, and that we don't have the will to be successful. And we don't have
the will to leave, because of some of the things you just outlined.
But I just don't hear any clarity. And again, I want to support the administration. I want to support you, because that's
what we need to do as a country, is let the shores (ph) align (ph), let the partisanship.
But I have to tell you, as a person who wants to do that, I still don't understand. OK? And I have average intelligence,
so I would ask you to, please -- or maybe let's have some witnesses in here that can shed more light or be more specific.
But I don't understand, and I'm very concerned.
And I think we're sending a lot of mixed signals. And I think there's a lot of dissension. Actually, as I listen to you, even
within the administration itself, and that has to end.
And I just ask you, please. You have a lot of experience, help us understand. You haven't done that today. And I would
ask the chairman to please have some witnesses come in and explain to us what the end state is, what we can envision
Afghanistan being whenever this withdrawal does take place, because I still do not understand.
We've changed it. Now it's sort of a degraded country where they have conflict, but it's not out of control. I mean, the
bar continues to change. And I'm just concerned as an individual, and yet I want us to be, if we can, all on the same page
as much as possible. But I think to do that, this has got to be much clearer than has been outlined.
HOLBROOKE:
Senator, I'm sorry that my answers don't fully satisfy you. But I want to be very clear on this, because I understand
your comments and I respect them.
First of all, the core question -- the one you are asked by your constituents, and I'm asked by everybody -- why are we
in Afghanistan? The short, simple answer is 9/11, direct threats to our national security interests, and the fact that while
our enemies against our homeland are on the Pakistani side of the border, this is a single struggle. And we have to
strengthen the Afghan government and let -- and teach it to stand on its own feet over time, so that we can move
forward, while we do other things that fall outside the scope of this hearing, to dismantle, deter and defeat Al Qaida.
Now, if you do not believe that it's a threat to the homeland, then we have an honest difference of opinion. But I think
the Times Square bombing incident shows clearly how dangerous that situation is.
Secondly, on the civilian mission, again, it's in support of a single, civilian-military, counter-insurgency mission. And we
have benchmarks, requested and required by the Congress, and submitted to you. And our overarching goal here is
always the same, to disrupt, dismantle and defeat Al Qaida and prevent its ability to threaten the United States.
And we believe, all of us -- and there is no division on this in the executive branch -- that the situation we face out
there is a direct threat. We believe that before the Times Square situation occurred, and I don't think anything could
have proved it more vividly.
And to achieve this, we have to degrade the Taliban as well, because they are part of the enemy's structure -- a
different part, but an integral part -- that we face.
Now, the Afghan government doesn't yet have the capacity to deal with this on its own. How could they after 30 years
of war? And so, the civilian part of it, the things I've just mentioned to you -- police, government capacity, rule of law,
subnational government, training provincial officials, women's empowerment and a whole series of other major issues --
are part of our civilian programs.
And we're happy to come back up to your office -- we appreciated your visit to us -- and continue this dialogue.
Our civilian strategy is designed from keeping Al Qaida at bay, and it's designed to help Afghan institutions establish
conditions for stable governance. Our plan has these benchmarks, which have been briefed to you and your colleagues,
and we're happy to discuss them in detail at any time.
 --- 

He is calling to complain about Ambassador Holbrooke. He feels that Holbrooke is condescending and not forthcoming,
including at this week's hearing. He also has broader concerns about the lack of a clear end state and metrics for our
Afghan policy, but the main reason he wants to talk to you is about Holbrooke.
Holbrooke tried to faithfully answer his questions and frankly Corker was looking for a sound byte and he got one. We
can offer him additional briefings and a readout after your upcoming trip if that would help.
You could use also this opportunity to thank him for sitting down earlier this week on the New START Treaty; to note
that we received and are following up on his July 14 follow-up letter; and that we want to continue working with him to
get him to a place where he can support the treaty.
 --- 

FYI — I invited her in since Ricardo reports to her and she and Craig have been doing the cuba engagement.
 --- 


 --- 

Exactly
 --- 

Transcript of Malinowski's meeting with Karzai attached.
 --- 


 --- 

FYI -- Karl and Zakhilwal have gone to Islamabad to try to close the deal.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, July 17, 2010 9:55 AM
H: fyi. circulated in Israeli and US Jewish publications. Note Bibi's private reference to
Bill. Sid
http://www.tabletmag.com/scro11/39692/fibi-netanyahu/
Tablet Magazine s a project of Nextbook. Inc,
About Us I Contact I Terms of Service I RSS
A New Read on Jewish Life
Fibi Netanyahu
In 20015 PM boasted of manipulating Oslo accords
By I Jul 15, 2010 4:03 PM
Netanyahu in 2001.
CREDIT: ::nl 1
Meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu last week, President Obama could not have been more effusive. "I believe Prime
Minister Netanyahu wants peace," Obama :3411 ill. "I believe he is ready to take risks for peace."
A newly revealed tape of Netanyahu in 2001, being interviewed while he thinks the cameras are off, shows him in a
radically different light. in it, Netanyahu dismisses American foreign policy as easy to maneuver, boasts of having derailed
the Oslo accords with political trickery, and suggests that the only way to deal with the Palestinians is to "beat them up,
not once but repeatedly, beat them up so it hurts so badly, until it's unbearable" (all translations are mine).
PI to Haaretz's Gideon Levy, the video should be "Banned for viewing by children so as not to corrupt them, and
distributed around the country and the world so that everyone will know who leads the government of Israel."
Netanyahu is speaking to a small group of terror victims in the West Bank settlement of Ofra two years after stepping
down as prime minister in 1999. He appears laid-back. After claiming that the only way to deal with the Palestinian
Authority was a large-scale attack, Netanyahu was asked by one of the participants whether or not the United States
would let such an attack come to fruition.
"I know what America is," Netanyahu replied. "America is'a thing you can move very easily, move it in the right direction.
They won't get in their way." He then called former president Bill Clinton "radically pro-Palestinian," and went on to belittle
the Oslo peace accords as vulnerable to manipulation. Since the accords state that Israel would be allowed to hang on to
pre-defined military zones in the West Bank, Netanyahu told his hosts that he could torpedo the accords by defining vast
swaths of land as just that.
"They asked me before the election if rd honor [the Oslo accords]," Netanyahu said. "I said I would, but ... I'm going to
interpret the accords in such a way that would allow me to put an end to this gallOping forward to the '67 borders. How did
we do it? Nobody said what defined military zones were. Defined military zones aresecurity zones; as far as I'm
concerned, the entire Jordan Valley is a defined military zone. Go argue."
Smiling, Netanyahu then recalled how he forced former U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher to agree to let Israel
alone determine which parts of the West Bank were to be defined as military zones. "They didn't want to give me that
letter," Netanyahu said, "so I didn't give them the Hebron agreement [the agreement giving Hebron back to the
Palestinians]. I cut the cabinet meeting short and said, 'I'm not signing.' Only when the letter came, during that meeting, to
me and to Arafat, did I ratify the Hebron agreement. Why is this important? Because from that moment on, I de facto put
an end to the Oslo accords."
President Obama, and anyone else concerned about Israel's commitment to the peace process, may watch the tape
online here PI.
Related: Tricky Bibi l2) [Haaretz]
Article printed from Tablet Magazine: http://www,tabletmag.com
URL to article: http://wwvv.tabletmag.com/scro11/39692/fibi-netanyahu/
URLs in this post:
[1] said: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/09/world/middleeast/09mideast.html
[2] According: http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/opinion/tricky-bibi-1.302053
[3] here: http://news.nana10.co.il/Articie/?Articield=731025&sid=126
Click here to print.
Copyright © 2010 Tablet Magazine. All rights reserved.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

10.2 is latest figure based on end FY 09-10 data. (Pakistan fiscal year ends jun 30 so just finalized)
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

I am currently traveling out of the country. If you need immediate assistance, please contact Joanne Laszczych,
(Laszczych1@state.gov) at 202-647-5548.
If it is an emergency after business hours, please reach out to our Operations Center to have them reach me.
Thank you
cdm
 --- 

Vail felt that Anne's assessment of the new Pakistani submission was too negative. He believes it is their opening
position - that it is quite sophisticated - and that it represents a real step forward from their initial 56-page list of
demands.
He acknowledges that it is lighter on the things we care about, but notes for example that productive items like the
strategic dialogue get far more space than unproductive items like civ-nuke.
He very much agrees with your concept of annotating the document.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

FYI. Would like to check in with you on this in am.
 --- 

Fyi - see below. i discussed with Larry. This is not about anything specific you've said, it's the PakMil's general rejoinder to
the American message. But it is worth keeping this critique in mind.
 --- 

Here is the readout:
Here is Molho's readout of BN's meeting with Mubarak. Pretty consistent with what GM hear
But Hale met with Suleiman last night
YM's Readout:
1.4(B)
1.4(E)
B1
1.4(D) — Declassify on: 08/26/2035
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Monday, July 19, 2010 2:08 AM
Fw: Letter from and Meeting with Afghan Minister of Labor, Social Affiars, Martyrs and
Disabled
MoLSAMD Letterjpg; MoLSAMD Letter page 2 docjpg
 --- 

Disabled
From Karl
 --- 

in the south
 --- 

Below are points for the press on the plane. I'll have a hard copy printed:
First major ministerial in Afghanistan since the 1970s. The very fact of it is a big deal.
Context is important. This is not out of the blue, it's not just a random gathering; it's part of a systematic process:
Karzai's inauguration, announcement of the President's strategy, London conference, Peace Jirga, and now the Kabul
conference.
Increasing Afghan leadership and ownership: They are presenting a set of concrete programs on governance, service
delivery, security transition, economic development, and reintegration. These programs are detailed; they are serious;
and they reflect months of work and consultation.
Increasing international alignment: The international community is coordinating with each other - through ISAF, Sedwill,
de Mistura, etc. - and aligning its efforts with the Afghan programs and priorities being set forth at this conference. This
is NOT a pledging conference. It is an opportunity to ensure we are effectively supporting Afghan government
leadership and ownership
Follow-through and accountability: In his inauguration, Karzai laid out a credible vision; in London, the Afghan
government committed to developing and pursuing specific plans in a variety of areas; at Kabul, we'll be heavily focused
on implementation. This is about mutual accountability for the pledges made and the programs set forth.
July 2011: The president's strategy reflects both urgency and resolve: increased resources and intensity in our efforts to
take the fight to the enemy and to build Afghan capacity to effect a conditions-based transition; and a long-term civilian
commitment to support Afghanistan long into the future.
Clear strategy: Reverse the momentum of the Taliban; build the capacity of Afghan security forces; and as Afghans
develop the capability to stabilize their country, we must draw down our combat presence and make a responsible
transition to Afghan leadership.
Clear desired end-state: An Afghan state that is willing and strong enough to ensure that global terrorists never again
have safe haven within its borders; can withstand internal and external threats; and can continue to make long-term
political and economic progress, all with sustainable levels of international support.
Civ-mil cooperation: Unfortunate to lose General McChrystal, but maintained continuity with General Petraeus and we
have only intensified our civ-mil engagement both in Kabul and Washington.
Reconciliation: Stress that it is Afghan-led. Note red-lines.
 --- 


 --- 

The writer is someone who has worked with Afghan women in developing small businesses in Afghanistan and is doing a
book about the experience.
She went back to Afghanistan for the conference that women had over the weekend and wrote the article that follows
for today's Daily Beast.
Soraya mentioned here is one of our Women of Courage. Gayle (the writer) told me in a separate email that De Mistura
was very sympathetic and said they should be consulted, that the current documents are working documents and he
pledged that the women would be more inovled in the follow up. He also told them that he was very impressed that
they had organized themselves in this 2-day conference to be able to play a more effective role. Zakhilwal was gracious,
but said they were adequately consulted. So it goes.
Secretary Clinton may be one of the highest-profile attendees at Tuesday's Kabul Conference, but
Afghan women fear their opinions won't be heard—and they worry new deals with fighters will roll
back their hard-fought rights.
As Hillary Clinton prepares to attend Tuesday's Kabul Conference, Afghan women are delivering a plain message to
government and international officials: Women's voices should be heard.
"We have to be honest. With respect to the Kabul Conference, we have not been consulted," said Soraya Pakzad, founder
of a women's shelter in the western Afghan city of Herat. Her comment came during an unusually heated question-and-
answer session with Afghan Finance Minister Omar Zakhilwal and United Nations representative Staffan de
Mistura marking the end of a two-day women's conference. "We want to be involved in policy-making. We don't want our
presence to be purely symbolic."
"Women's rights and achievements should not be compromised in any peace negotiations or
accords."
The Kabul Conference is, in part, built on symbolism. A follow-up to January's London Conference, the gathering marks
the first time Afghanistan has played host to its international donors, a decision that is intended to showcase the transition
from foreign to Afghan ownership of national priorities. More than 65 international delegations are expected to descend
upon the Afghan capital, which is already enduring security crackdowns and traffic gridlock. Workers could be seen
Sunday painting curbs and planting flowers in advance of the foreigners' arrival.
Discussions will center around five topics, including economic development, agriculture, governance, and security. The
goal of the half-day event is to establish a framework for Afghan leadership in the setting—and execution—of the
country's political and economic direction.
Although it remains to be seen how quickly the Afghan govemment, long under-resourced and beset by allegations of
corruption, will be able to take the reins from its international donors, there is no question that Afghan ownership is the
direction in which things are moving, on the political, economic, and security fronts. And that is precisely why women feel
the stakes for this week's meeting are so high, particularly in light of new deals to empower local militias that might
threaten women's rights.
"After the Kabul Conference, no one knows what else could be on the agenda apart from war escalations and
negotiations," said Orzala Ashraf, an Afghan human rights activist. "This is very important for us, to get a serious and
honest commitment from our government in the presence of all witnesses from the world that our voices will not be
silenced."
Ashraf and a number of other women's advocates view Tuesday's talks are their last, best shot at speaking out about their
concerns, with help from European and American officials who have been working hard to help them win a seat at the
table. In another show of support, Secretary Clinton and Danish Foreign Minister Lene Espersen will meet Tuesday
morning with a group of women leaders.
Regardless of this high-profile backing, many women say they have little faith in the process to produce anything aside
from more paper and more unkept promises.
"Women are very tired of all these conferences; the government is going to have to show commitments," said Selay
Ghaffar, an Afghan Women's Network board member. "We want things to change."
And it remains unclear how many Afghans outside Kabul, men or women, are paying attention to yet another gathering to
discuss their future.
"Women in the provinces don't even know about this," said Zainab, a young math teacher from Helmand province. "I
would say 60 percent of women have no idea this is going on."
Others say the presence of one or two women at the Kabul Conference isn't enough to make a difference. And they say
they fear the recent move from NATO to empower local militias to fight the Taliban, particularly in southern Afghanistan.
"This is very dangerous," said Shahida Hussain, a human rights advocate from Kandahar who worked as a community
organizer during the Taliban years. "We had militias during the communist years and Afghanistan was destroyed. We fear
war again."
Women leaders say that they want peace and are glad to welcome back former fighters, but only if they respect women's
constitutional guarantee to equal protections under the law.
"Women should be a constituent part of all bodies outlined in the Afghanistan Peace and Reintegration Plan," said the
women in a statement at the end of their meeting. "Women's rights and achievements should not be compromised in any
peace negotiations or accords."
In the meantime, women continue to fight for a voice as Tuesday approaches. After a weeklong flurry of conference calls,
embassy meetings, and lunchtime gatherings, two women aside from government ministers are now slated to speak.
And in a small victory for women, international officials agreed with Pakzad's assessment before pledging that women
would be more involved going forward.
"I agree, you were not consulted," said da Mistura, appearing to contradict the Afghan finance minister, who only a few
moments earlier had said that women's views had and would be included. "As usual, we have been paying lip service to
you and we are all at fault for that."
Gayle Tzemach Lemmon covered presidential politics as a producer at ABC News in Washington. Since 2005, she has
been reporting on women entrepreneurs starting small and medium-sized businesses in post-conflict economies such as
Afghanistan, Bosnia and Rwanda. She is currently working on a book scheduled for 2010 publication by HarperCollins
about a young Afghan entrepreneur whose business supported her family and community during the Taliban years.
 --- 

Have you been dictating to the NYT?? Exactly what you have been emphasizing. AM
 --- 

The House Appropriations Committee is apparently going to revise it's allocation for State/USAID — it is reportedly some
$1.3 billion better (!). So, the overall cut would be closer to $2.7 billion, not $4 billion. Will report back when that is
finalized. Some good news for a change.
 --- 

No!! And I'm clearly CCd; I have no idea why I missed this.
I will make these edits immediately and send to you, Huma, and Jake.
 --- 

Great.
 --- 

We didn't receive this email last night for some reason but we were working thru similar additions - Megan will have for
you soon.
 --- 

We'll have it to you in 15 mins.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Thank you for all you did on behalf of the Afghan women on your whirlwind visit. Emails of gratitude to you are pouring
in from Afghanistan. Many of the women listened to your intervention and commented on that as well as your small
meeting.
Yesterday, I had to speak at an event with the Congressional Women's Caucus on Maternal Health in Afghanistan. I said
that as we were meeting in the Cannon Caucus Room , you were making a major maternal health announcement in
Afghanistan. The women Members were overjoyed as were all the health advocates.
This article from the Guardian was sent to me by a UK parliamentarian who intends to echo your remarks. Also, Andrea
Mitchell did a great piece on your meeting with the women on NBC.
> Hillary Clinton vows to defend rights of Afghan women
> US secretary of state tells foreign ministers meeting in Kabul women 'will not be sacrificed' in any peace deal with the
Taliban
> Jon Boone in Kabul
> Wednesday July 21 2010
> The Guardian
> http://mvw.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/jul/20/hillary-clinton-afghan-women-taliban
> Jon Boone
> Hillary Clinton today promised that any peace deal with the ultra-conservative Taliban movement would not come at the
cost of the rights of Afghan women.
> The US secretary of state told a conference of the world's foreign ministers that women in the country "will not be
sacrificed" and announced a number of initiatives to improve their situation.
> Her intervention came when many diplomats assume that any deal with hardline insurgents will inevitably involve
compromises that would have been unthinkable nine years ago, when the US-led invasion of Afghanistan was in part
justified by the desire to emancipate Afghan women.
> But in a meeting with leading Afghan women today Clinton told them that any deal "can't come at the cost of women and
women's lives".
> "We are aware of the concerns that many of you have expressed about the reconciliation process and we understand
why you would have those concerns," Clinton told them.
> Anxious to put the issue on the agenda of her fellow foreign ministers, she told the conference that women and civil
society groups "will be essential to this country's success."
> "If these groups are fully empowered to help build a just and lasting peace, they will help do so," she said. "If they are
silenced and pushed to the margins of Afghan society, the prospects for peace and justice will be subverted."
> She also announced extra US funding for projects to improve maternal and child health, including one scheme that will
use mullahs to encourage women to make use of clinics. In rural Afghan society, where they are often not allowed to
leave the house without their husband's permission, women are sometimes discouraged from seeking medical care.
> The final conference communique recognised "the centrality of women's rights to the future of Afghanistan".
> Earlier this month, a report by Human Rights Watch said the Afghan government was already doing little to protect
women and that their rights should be a priority in any political agreement with the Taliban.
> The organisation said in areas under the control of militants, women suffer from violence and intimidation while girls'
schools and female activists are attacked. The report identified one case where a female civil servant had to quit her job
after receiving a "night letter" from insurgents threatening to kill her.
> If you have any questions about this email, please contact the guardian.co.uk user help desk:
userhelpguardian.co.uk.
Get a new e-mail account with Hotmail - Free. Sign-up now. =
 --- 

41101¦
11MIMMIII@IIMIIIIMONIN
 --- 

Fyi.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

WASHINGTON (AP) - The Obama administration targeted key leaders of Afghanistan's Taliban with new financial
sanctions Thursday in a move that could complicate relations with Pakistan and Afghan efforts to reconcile with
insurgents.
The action by the Treasury Department will freeze the militants' assets, ban travel and trigger an arms embargo. It
follows similar action by the United Nations earlier this week, and comes after calls from Gen. David Petraeus, the top
military commander in Afghanistan, and Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, for
sanctions against Afghan insurgent commanders operating in Pakistan.
Taken together, the U.S. and U.N. sanctions prohibit any financial transactions of the terror leaders in U.N. member
countries, putting additional pressure on Pakistan to take broader actions against the Taliban militants.
Three financial kingpins were targeted with sanctions, including a key member of the Haqqani network, which,directs
operations against U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan from safe havens in Pakistan. Among those sanctioned
Thursday was Nasiruddin Haqqani, an emissary for the Haqqani Network and brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani who leads
the group with his father, Jalaluddin.
Others sanctioned included Gul Agha Ishakzai, the head of the Taliban's financial commission and Amir Abdullah, the
former treasurer to captured Taliban leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Barader. The sanctions placed on the three leaders as
terrorists would deprive them of the assets they need to fund their terror operations, said Adam J. Szubin, director of
Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control. "We will continue to aggressively work to expose and dismantle the financial
networks of terrorist groups in support of the president's goal of a stable Afghanistan," he said.
According to officials, lshakzai is the head of the Taliban's financial commission, has collected money for suicide attacks
in Kandahar, Afghanistan, and has been involved in the disbursement of funds for Taliban fighters. He has served as a
main financial officer and close adviser to Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar. Abdullah has reportedly traveled to
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Libya and the United Arab Emirates to raise money for the Taliban and facilitate meetings and
communications with key leaders. Nasiruddin Haqqani has collected funds for the Haqqani group, including from al-
Qaida. Last week, Gen. David Petraeus, the top military commander in Afghanistan, urged officials to add commanders
from the Haqqani network to the terrorist list. At the time, administration officials said a review was under way, largely
accelerated after the May 1 failed Times Square bombing. The man who has pleaded guilty in the New York incident,
Pakistani-born American Faisal Shahzad, said he trained with the Pakistani Taliban to build bombs, then returned to the
U.S. to launch an attack that would avenge attacks on Muslims by U.S. forces overseas.
 --- 


 --- 

I'm not sure where you are but jim steinberg needs to talk to you secure asap.
Also, tony blair called back, he's free for next 3 hours.
And pm papandreou called, wants to give you readout from his middle east trip.
 --- 

Mitchell's team contacted me to make sure you had received the HBJ readout. I received it yesterday and it should be in
the set of Middle East docs I gave to Huma to give to you when we got off the plane. It should be in your materials.
Apologies for not flagging yesterday when we landed.
 --- 

Pulse - automatically updates when you open it. If you look to the left of each name of the news org, you'll initially see a
circle like symbol. That means it's updating.
Oh, actually the problem you are having is that it needs to find WiFi - do you have WiFi in whatever home you're in now?
We just need to set that up once and it will subsequently connect whenever it senses that wifi.
And yes on Monday can spend some quality time.
 --- 

Let me ask Justin/Huma
And on Monday I'll set it up so that it has a near permanent Internet feed
 --- 

Looks like there will be a three-way meeting in Turkey tomorrow.
B1
1.4(D)
 --- 

I saw he put in a call for you.
 --- 

I asked State Ops to call Moratinos; they said you had previously asked and they wanted to know which order to call. Do you want to
call him first or do you want me to call and report to you and then you call?
 --- 

Mitchell, George <
Sunday, July 25, 2010 11:16 AM
Re: Here's my personal email
B6
I talked with Frattini again and went over the point a ain. He said he understands and a rees.
He again said he understands and agrees.
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Sunday, July 25, 2010 11:24 AM
Fw: Update: Jordanian Foreign Minister Judeh has requested to speak with the Secretary
on a secure line
 --- 

OK, will do. Please let me know results of Ashton call as this will be helpful to know in my calls with other EU FMs.
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJi@state.gov>
Sunday, July 25, 2010 12:21 PM
Fw: GM's conversation with FM Frattini
RELEASE IN
PART
4(B),B1,1.4(D)
Fyi
Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 07/24/2025
 --- 

It appears that he wants to raise some sensitive issues with you - so it's hard to do up a specific call sheet.
 --- 

on a secure line
Roger.
 --- 

B6
RELEASE IN
PART
1.4(B),B1,1.4(D),B6
 --- 


 --- 

I mistakenly wrote in your notes that it was tomorrow — it is of course Thursday.
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Sorry to bother you, and promise to keep it to a minimum,
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Ok - I am sending huma a revised call grid this afternoon.
 --- 


 --- 

Passed 308-114.
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Yes Haiti money was in.
Also had a good meeting with corker and isakson. They liked our negotiating record summary, but they don't want to
vote on the treaty in committee next week. Looks like we are headed for september for committee and hopefully floor
action as well.
 --- 


 --- 

Purpose:
Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.goy>
Wednesday, July 28, 2010 12:00 PM
H
sheet
RELEASE IN PART B5
 --- 

Ebeling, Betsy
Wednesday, July 28, 2010 12:29 PM
RE:
said: Yeah. Yeah yeah.
 --- 

I'm not. I'm in new york now. Sorry.
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

What do u think?
 --- 

HRC: the email below is fro Love that guy. He wanted to share this news with
you. Kudos!!!!
 --- 

Oh yeah
 --- 

Nothing earth-shaking in the meeting. Better to report by phone than in writing.
 --- 

Below is a draft statement:
 --- 


 --- 

on monday so we set time for 1:30pm monday
advised i am getting report B6
 --- 


 --- 

1.4(D)
B1
 --- 

Let's discuss.
 --- 

Can you get me more info about the shrine?
 --- 

Received.
 --- 

Yes--I'll come out and eat w you all.
 --- 

Ok to go.
 --- 

