Let's do Patsy. I'm ready.
 --- 

Sounds good.
 --- 


 --- 

Pls tell Jake to vet w others so I can raise.
 --- 

Pis get #s for Gen. Shelton for me. Thx.
 --- 

So, neither option was mentioned; it was "my administration" which may mean they'll pursue out of WH. What do you
know?
 --- 

Thx. I have them all.
 --- 

Let's just go w
 --- 

I had asked for a snapshot of statistics about Dept and AID--facts and figures. Can you have one for me this am so I can
see what else should be in it?
 --- 

I would also like an updated list of all the FMs, DMs and heads of State w whom I've met.
 --- 

Pls put Michelle Fluornoy at DOD on list.
 --- 

Ok to all.
 --- 

Yeah!! Is he going w us?
 --- 

Thank you! What time tomorrow for Isabelle?
 --- 

Could you work w Derek, Philippe and others to draft this report for us to send to the President after our next trip?
We could workd on it during the trip. Let's discuss tomorrow. Thx.
 --- 

Will I be called at 9:15?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, April 23, 2009 6:44 AM
'Jake.Sullivar
Testimony
 --- 


 --- 

Have you discussed w Bill Burns and Steve Bosworth?
 --- 

Just landed. Let's discuss this--and much else. Can you talk?
 --- 

Pls call Fluornoy's office at DOD and check this address which she sent me this am and send me the correct one asap.
Thx.
 --- 

Michele,
I look forward to getting together to discuss a number of issues. Thanks for following up w Jackie Newmyer. Her email:
All the best, Hillary
 --- 

I agree. Can you talk--i have a matter of some urgency.
 --- 

Did you get anything from him? See below.
 --- 

Can we do tomorrow around 9?
 --- 


 --- 

Yes, I am.
 --- 

They are meeting at State so it's easy to do. We should schedule. Let's discuss today.
 --- 

SANAC areas of responsibility.docx
Huma — can you print for HRC?
Thanks.
cdm
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

She called me.
 --- 

From amb to brazil (holdover)
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

FYI below
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Wednesday, April 01, 2009 12:11 PM
FVV.: For your review: Scott Gration Announcement
 --- 

FYI
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 03/30/2034
 --- 

International Affairs Budget
FYI
 --- 

Will do.
 --- 

Steinberg, James B <SteinbergJB@state.gov>
Thursday, April 02, 2009 12:32 PM
H
RE: IAEA
I also talked with Kerry about this, and subsequently
Would like to discuss our thoughts about this at your convenience. I will be seeing the
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Cherie Blair
Friday, April 3, 2009 10:08 AM
H
lesume.pdf
It was lovely to see you last night and sorry to bother you
Cherie Booth QC
The information contained in this email and all attachments are private and confidential and may be privileged. The
information is intended for the exclusive use of the recipient individual(s) or organisation(s). If you are not the intended
recipient, you are hereby notified that the content or attachments to this communication may not be disclosed, copied,
used or distributed without our express permission and we would be grateful if you would then advise the sender
immediately of the error in delivery by responding to this message, and then delete it from your system. Thank you.
Virus Warning: Although this email and any attachments are believed to be free from software viruses which could
damage your computer, it may contain such viruses. While the sender has taken every precaution to minimise this risk, I
cannot and will not accept liability for any loss or damage as a result of software viruses which you sustain in any way
from their receipt or opening. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening the attachment.
e: 04/02/09 06:09:00
This message has been scanned by MailController - www.MailController.altohiway.com
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Cherie Blair
Friday, April 3, 2009 12:11 PM
H
RE: Re:
thank you so much
Sent from my HTC Touch Pro
 --- 

See below — another item I want to discuss when you call back (including Mexico and Durban) — have heard not a peep
from Denis on Carlos (and I pinged him) or others.
cdm
_
 --- 

Calling now
 --- 

Further info about
Cherie Blair
Saturday, April 4, 2009 7:46 AM
H
FW: Applying for a job
Resume.pdf
 --- 

Call
 --- 

Fyi
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, April 04, 2009 11:18 PM
H
Fw: Thanks
 --- 

Fyi below
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, April 05, 2009 6:21 AM
Fw: Durban Language - S/D(S) Language
And my focus arouo of AA at my dinner last nite - none aware of issue or of durban I for that matter and it included a
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Cheryl Mills <
Monday, April 6, 2009 5:06 AM
williamsbarret1 Sullivan, Jacob J'
FW: Key development opinion research summarized
Thought this was useful framing for us as we think of your messaging in general but also the larger framework
document on which AMS is working.
cdm
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

A preview of memo coming to you officially in hard copy today:
SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
NOTE FOR THE SECRETARY
FROM: WHA — Thomas A. Shannon
White House Advisor on the Summit — Jeffrey S. Davidow
S/P — Anne-Marie Slaughter
SUBJECT: Climbing to the Summit of the Americas
42
`i..)
44
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Monday, April 06, 2009 5:40 AM
FW: Gov Richardson
FYI
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, April 06, 2009 5:43 AM
H
FW: My candidacy
FYI
 --- 


 --- 

Remind me to discuss with you.
cdm
 --- 

Your phone may have been alerting to "4 missed calls," (some of which may have been me'because I dialed in twice
earlier today to check the messages). Alternatively, there could be text messages on the phone. But it is free and clear
of voice mails.
Lauren
Lauren Jiloty
Special Assistant to
Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton
57
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Secretary Clinton,
I hope that all is well back in the States and just wanted to let you know that I will be in Washington
Wednesday. If you might have a minute to spare to follow up on your last message in person or by phone this
week or over the weekend, I would very much appreciate the opportunity. Congratulations on the Europe
trip!
Yours sincerely, Jackie
Jacqueline Newmyer
President, Long Term Strategy Group
12 Eliot St., Cambridge, MA 02138
617-661-1626 (fax)
www.ltstrategy.com
 --- 

Auto forwarded by a Rule
Laura Pena B6
B6
RELEASE IN PART B5,B6
 --- 

Already did that.
 --- 

Per my earlier email.
cdm
-^ my- -----
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Final Dinner List — FYI (excluding DOS invitees)
Invite List: Haiti Policy Dinner
Cheryl Little
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center (FIAC)
*advocate and expert on Haitian immigration
Tel:
Nicole Lee
Executive Director of Transafrica Forum
*Lawyer, worked for a year in Haiti
Susana Barciela
Former Miami Herald Editorial Page member
now FIAC
*advocate, chronicled Haitian political developments and immigration
Tel:
lyelaw Lloyd Griffith, Ph.D.
Professor of Political Science
Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs
CUNY College
*expert on Caribbean security
Tel:
Brian Concannon
Director of the Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti
*Lead lawyer in Raboteau case
Paul Collier
Professor of Economics
Oxford University
*expert in development economics, author of Haiti special report commissioned by the UN SYG
Fax: +44-(0)1865 281447
Nicholas Kristof
Columnist
New York Times
*has recently been writing on and from Haiti
Eduardo Gamarra
Professor of Political Science
Florida International University
*advisor to govt of Dominican Republic on regional security issues
Tel:
Fax: (305) 348-3593
E-mail B6
Mark Schneider
Senior Vice Presient/LatAm advisor
International Crisis Group
*Haiti among areas of expertise/most recent report "Haiti 2009: Stability At Risk," March 2009
Paul Farmer
Professor of Medical Anthropology, Harvard; Founder, Partners in Health
*got start in pro-poor health care with PIH's first clinic in central Haiti
Tel:
Fax: 617-432-5300
Bob Pastor
Professor of International Affairs, American University
* served as the Senior Advisor to the Carter-Nunn-Powell Mission to restore constitutional government in Haiti in 1994.
Dan Erikson
Senior Associate, Inter-American Dialogue
*frequent contributor to Miami Herald, LA Times, and Washington Post on Caribbean affairs
Leonie Hermantin
Little Haiti Housing and Accion USA
*one of 40 people cited by the Miami Herald for special recognition as up and coming leaders in South Florida.
Marleine Bastien
Fanm Ayisyen Nan Miyami, Inc. (Haitian Women of Miami)
*leading voice of Haitian community in Miami
Johanna Mendelson-Foreman
Center for Strategic and International Studies
*worked on the U.S.-Brazil biofuels project, including in Haiti, and is known to us.
IA
Tel:
Dan Erikson
Inter-American Dialogue
*director of Caribbean Programs at Inter-American Dialogue and manages a project on the politics of development aid
to Haiti.
Bob Perito
U.S. Institute for Peace
*coordinator of the Peacekeeping Lessons Learned Project and the Haiti Working Group at USIP
Robert Fatton
University of Virginia, Political Science Department
*Haitian-Am ofessor of Political Science; has written extensively on Haiti.
Mark Weisbrot
Co-Founder of Center for Economic and Policy Research
*Worked in Haiti in the late 90s
11
 --- 

He is at home now
I'll also make sure ops has the number
Lauren Jiloty
Special Assistant to
Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton
 --- 

Hi, Yes; I am at (en route to airport). Thank you!
Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
 --- 

Yes — we can discuss — and in the interim we'll check on the additional names you listed.
We did not ask
Will ask AMS re:
Also asked
yet — he would be on staff list as opposed to outside guest (eg., WH folks will be with DOS foil(s)
but they did not get back yet with any names.
cdm
 --- 

RELEASE IN PART B5,B6
B6
Remind me to discuss feedback on
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Tried you through ops
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

K - will call in a bit - in line at dmv to surrender my ny license (sadly for me)
 --- 

Lauren Jiloty
Special Assistant to
Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton
21
 --- 

Just called house and got vm.
Have a few odd and ends. Nothing urgent for tonite but would like to send you a revised summit schedule for your sign
off after we do our planning calls tonite.
 --- 

April 11, 2009 12pm
Word count: 2,392 (19 min)
Rooney (x7-7203, 202-431-6498)
SECRETARY OF STATE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON REMARKS TO THE HAITI DONORS CONFERENCE Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, April 14, 2009
For some of us, Haiti is a neighbor. For others, a place of historic and cultural ties. For all of us, a test of collective
commitment and resolve.
Some may ask why a small nation in the middle of the Caribbean Sea should command our attention today. Why
countries in the Western Hemisphere, Europe, the Middle East and Asia should offer assistance to Haiti in the midst of a
global economic downturn that has shaken us all.
We're gathered at this conference because what happens in Haiti will resound far beyond the Caribbean and beyond the
Americas. The success or failure of this one small nation has economic, social and political implications, not just for its 9
million citizens, but for a region whose future will be shaped by the strength of our commitment to achieve economic
recovery, political progress and wider opportunity for people from Portland to Porto Alegre to Port-au-Prince.
The United States is here, first and foremost, because it is the right thing to do for our neighbor and friend. Our ties to
Haiti reach back to the early years of both our nations and have endured for generations-through our struggles for
independence; through the defeat of slavery in Haiti, which inspired slaves and abolitionists in the U.S. to press on with
their fight for freedom; and more recently, through the hundreds of thousands of Haitians who emigrated to the United
States and strengthened it through their contributions in politics, business, science, sports and culture-the benefits of
which I experienced firsthand as a senator representing New York.
We are also here because we are committed to creating a hemisphere in which every nation-no matter their present
level of wealth or current political circumstances-is moving in the same direction, toward greater peace, prosperity,
freedom and opportunity.
With Haiti, we have the chance through global cooperation and collaboration to stand in solidarity with a people who
are seeking to march forward. A nation where small investments and assistance from other countries are beginning to
reap dividends in economic growth, wider access to health care, stronger governmental institutions, greater safety and
security-and the higher quality of life that results when the material conditions of people's lives improve.
Today, Haiti is the poorest nation in the hemisphere, with one of the region's biggest gaps between the haves and have-
nots. But in 2006, Haiti had its highest economic growth since the 1990s. It is on track to reach the completion point for
the IMF's Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative in the next few months, which means significant debt relief is on the
way, which will free up approximately $4 million a month-money that Haiti can invest directly in improving the lives of
its people and building a future of self-sufficiency and confidence.
Haiti has the region's highest rate of HIV/AIDS, the highest rate of maternal mortality, and the highest rate of child
mortality. But the numbers of HIV infections and child and maternal deaths are all coming down.
Not long ago, Haiti endured three decades of a brutal dictatorship. But the national and presidential elections in 2006
jump-started Haiti's democracy, and President Preval and Prime Minister Pierre Louis are seeking to maintain a strong
commitment to democratic governance, which will take another step forward on Sunday with elections for the Senate.
Like many nations, including the United States, Haiti struggles against crime, particularly the global scourge of drug
trafficking. But reforms to improve policing, strengthen the justice system and fight corruption are now underway, and
a peacekeeping force led by Brazil has helped bring stability to many Haitian communities.
Haiti made these strides with help from its own citizens and many of the nations and institutions represented here
today. And this progress did not come only through government-to-government partnerships, but also through links
among businesses, universities, NG0s, religious and cultural groups, and individuals-the full range of resources and
relationships, which is the heart of smart power.
That trajectory of progress has been undermined by the combined winds of hurricanes and a global economic recession.
Haiti is in danger of stalling.
This conference gives us an opportunity to reignite its path to progress and work as a team-with Haiti at the helm-to
advance a comprehensive, long-term strategy for Haiti's growth, by coordinating hemispheric and international efforts,
targeting clear goals, and deploying our diverse skills and resources efficiently and effectively.
President Preval and Prime Minister Pierre Louis have identified what help Haiti needs to get back on track. With these
priorities as our guide and Haiti as our partner, we can make high-impact investments that will help lay the foundation
for stronger democratic institutions, a vibrant civil society, and an open market economy that creates more stability,
attracts international investment, and offers more jobs and wider economic opportunities for Haiti and our region as a
whole.
Now is the time to step up our investment in Haiti-not because the situation is so dire, but because the consequences of
inaction could lead to significantly larger costs in both human and financial terms down the road.
With $100, we can pay for a year of schooling for one Haitian child or immunize five. That's a tiny fraction of the cost of
solving these problems if they escalate over time.
The United States will target our support toward three areas that the Haitian government has requested, which are
aimed at promoting conditions that are essential for national and regional progress.
First, the Haitian people need to be secure. They must be able to travel safely to work and school and participate in the
civic lives of their communities without fear of violence.
Second, the country needs stronger infrastructure, particularly roads, which are the circulatory system of any robust
economy. Meanwhile, the people of Haiti are ready to work, but jobs are in short supply. We can accomplish two things
at once by putting people to work building roads and other infrastructure throughout Haiti.
And third, last year's hurricanes blew a hole in the government's budget.
Now Haiti is facing a huge deficit, which will make it harder to provide services in the short-term or fund major projects
in the long-term. Their debt obligations further constrain their ability to lay the groundwork for the future.
On each of these issues-security, jobs and infrastructure, and debt relief-the United States is lending its assistance and
seeking to partner with other nations to maximize our collective impact.
First, security. Effective international partnerships have already helped stem violence and improve security in Haiti. Cite
Soleil, for example, was a no-man's-land for years, but today, violence has subsided and a new sense of freedom is felt in
the streets.
The Haitian National Police have been supported in their work by the UN peacekeeping operation in Haiti, which is the
first in the hemisphere in which Latin American and Caribbean nations have participated. Brazil has led the mission with
determination and skill. This level of engagement and collaboration is a major step forward for our region.
But criminal networks operating in Haiti have not been eliminated. Haiti continues to fight drug traffickers who have
made this country a distribution point for illegal drugs headed to the United States, Canada and Europe.
Drug trafficking is a problem that involves many nations, all of which have a role to play in ending this deadly trade. That
includes the United States. We will give $2 million to fight drug trafficking in Haiti through the Merida Initiative, a plan
conceived by Mexico, Central America and the United States. This money will fund a secure communications network
for the Haitian police; provide a maritime base, vehicles and operational support for police drug units; provide training
to promote cross-border cooperation between Haiti and the Dominican Republic; and sharpen the investigation and
prosecution of drug crimes.
Once security is established, opportunity can take root. Nations from Canada to Spain to Japan offered generous
assistance to help repair the damage from last year's storms. Now it is time to take the next step-to move beyond
peacekeeping and disaster relief to long-term reconstruction and development.
Haiti has the highest unemployment rate in the hemisphere; 70 percent of its people don't have jobs. It also has one of
the region's highest population growth rates. Together, these trends have created what one development expert has
called a "youth tsunami"-nearly 1 million youths are expected to come into the job market in the next five years.
To spur the creation of jobs, the United States passed the HOPE Act in 2006, to give garments made in Haiti tariff-free
access to the U.S. market. Last October, we extended this trade preference for another decade. Apparel is one of the
largest sectors in Haiti's economy. We see great potential for job creation in this field, and we are gratified by Brazil's
interest in supporting the Haitian apparel industry as well.
But to build a diversified economy, Haiti needs more than trade deals. It also needs the infrastructure to support the
flow of goods and services. The roads in Haiti are beyond inadequate; many communities are isolated by the lack of a
passable road, which prevents people from holding jobs, children from going to school, and farmers from bringing their
crops to market.
Better roads could facilitate greater trade and bring more Haitians into the global economy.
Haiti also needs better roads in tourist areas, to promote that sector of the economy. Other urgent infrastructure needs
include digging water catchments to prevent floods, completing a garment workers' training center, and creating canals
to help irrigation.
As part of the $287 million in non-emergency assistance we will provide to Haiti this year, we have authorized $20
million in aid to generate jobs, to help people put their skills to work building their country's future. We look forward to
working with Haiti to distribute that money quickly and effectively, to trigger a virtuous circle for long-term economic
growth.
All the fiscal responsibility in the world can't prevent a natural disaster.
The hurricanes didn't just wash away crops and houses; they also washed away
months of government planning for the future. Haiti is facing an
approximately $50 million budget deficit, which could undermine Haiti's long-term ambitions as well as services that
people depend on to survive.
The United States will provide $20 million to pay Haiti's upcoming debt service obligations, to free Haiti to use its
resources to fill that budget gap.
[There is a fourth urgent need that the United States is committed to helping Haiti resolve. The combined effect of
rising food prices globally and the destruction of crops by the hurricanes have exposed millions of Haitians to
malnutrition and its destructive effects on health and productivity. Malnourished people are often too weak to work;
chronically hungry children struggle to learn in school. Food insecurity is not only a source of suffering, but a direct
threat to economic growth and global stability. The United States will provide a $15-million in-kind contribution of food
to help Haiti as it continues to rebuild. ]
These are some of the ways in which the United States is ready to partner with Haiti and other nations. But there are
additional pieces of the larger mission that need support-from helping Haiti adapt to climate change so future
hurricanes won't claim thousands of lives; to strengthening health systems; promoting sustainable agriculture; and
developing civil society.
This work is not only a matter for governments, but also a mission for our people. Here in the U.S., I have heard from
many individuals and groups who care about Haiti and want to help it develop but don't know how to invest their time
and money in a way that will make a real impact. We should think creatively about helping people outside government
get involved in a meaningful way with Haiti's future. Our people are our most valuable resource, and their potential to
help in places like Haiti has not yet been tapped.
We know from empirical data that small investments go a long way. This is something I've seen for myself in my own
visits to Haiti. I traveled there with my husband shortly after our wedding, and again years later as First Lady. I met a
doctor who had emigrated to the United States and became a U.S. Air Force Colonel, but returned to his home town of
Pignon to run a center for health, women's literacy and microcredit. He and his staff had few resources, but they
offered a comprehensive range of services to thousands of clients.
I visited a family-planning clinic where young people were trained to educate their peers about how to protect their
health and prevent teen pregnancy.
And I met with women from a group called Women in Democracy. These women had attended a global conference on
women's leadership in Montevideo, Uruguay, and when they returned home, they created this organization to support
Haitian women running for office.
Eleven years later, their organization is larger and stronger than ever, and so is their mission. In addition to supporting
women candidates, they also hold trade fairs for women entrepreneurs, run civic education programs to teach women
their rights, support women journalists, and build connections between women throughout the Caribbean.
These Haitian women remind us that we will never achieve real progress if we leave millions of people behind. And they
demonstrate a powerful commitment on the part of the Haitian people to participate in and lead their nation's recovery.
Our role is to support their work however we can, and to demonstrate through our actions our belief that their future is
as important as our own.
What happens next in Haiti will send a message to the world about the power of collaboration on behalf of every poor
nation that has worked hard to earn a foothold in the global economy but has tumbled in recent months.
On behalf of every man and woman in the hemisphere, from the northern expanses of Canada to the southern tip of
Argentina, who is working harder than ever with fewer resources and for smaller rewards. and the children whose
futures have been jeopardized by forces far beyond their control. let us prove our commitment to an economic recovery
that reaches not only the citizens of our individual nations but all people everywhere.
 --- 

As is often the case, I have to read in the paper what David is up to rather than learn it at home. . . but perhaps I
wouldn't have it any other way.
cdm
brifibinoton Post
NEWSI POLITICSI OPINIONSI BUSINESSI LOCAL SPORTSI ARTS & LIVING I GOING OUT GUIDE
I JOBSI CARSI REAL ESTATE 'SHOPPING
School of Second, Chances
The teachers at Oak Hill Academy approach their jobs with the faith that even the most hardened juvenile
delinquents can achieve -- and the knowledge that many still won't
By Karen Houppert
Sunday, April 12, 2009; W18
The six teenage boys, incarcerated at the District's Oak Hill juvenile detention facility in Laurel file into their
classroom after lunch one late January afternoon. They are surprised to see strangers -- five women and two
men -- sitting in the chairs that the boys typically occupy.
The students find some empty seats and shrug out of their matching brown coats and mismatched scarves. They
are curious about the visitors in a lean-back, fold-your-arms, prove-it kind of way.
"I'm James Forman," begins a 40-something man. "I'm a professor at Georgetown Law School and -- "
"You related to the James Forman?" interrupts 17-year-old Carleto Bailey.
"I'm James Forman Jr."
"That your father? James Forman your dad?" Carleto demands.
"Yes, I "
"Wasn't he some big civil rights guy? NAACP? Or SNCC?"
"SNCC," Forman says, seemingly surprised that Carleto has heard of his father, who was executive secretary of
the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee for years in the 1960s before becoming active with the Black
Panthers.
B6
"He's a good guy," Carleto continues. "You tell him that."
Forman smiles. "He passed a few years ago, but he would be happy to hear this," the professor says. He scans
the room. The Oak Hill students, all African American, are dressed identically in khaki pants and royal-blue
polo shirts. They have chosen seats on the edges of the room and, after sitting down, have pushed their chairs
back as far as possible against the wall.
Forman's Georgetown law students -- African American, Arab, Latino, Caucasian -- are in jeans and sweaters.
They lean forward, intent and maybe a little bit nervous. "I teach a class on juvenile justice at the law school,"
Forman continues. "And I thought this would be a really good way for law students to learn about juvenile
justice. There is a certain amount you can learn from reading, but you also need to see and experience things. So
I thought they would learn a lot from coming out here and hearing about your experiences."
Carleto raises an eyebrow. This is a new one.
"And the benefit for you is that they know things about the law that you don't. Ya'll have certain things you
know. They have certain things they know. It can be a learning opportunity for everybody."
Forman suggests they go around the room and share their names and an interesting fact about themselves.
Dead silence.
He smiles encouragingly. "My name is James Forman, and I helped to start this organization, See Forever, that
now runs your school," he says.
Carleto, who has been leaning back on the two rear legs of his chair, brings it down with a bang that sends his
short dreads swinging forward and his black plastic rectangular glasses sliding down his nose.
A few Georgetown students jump.
He looks out over the top of his glasses. "My name's Carleto Bailey," he says. "My interesting fact is that I'm
funny./I
He gives a wide smile of bright white teeth. The Georgetown students laugh. Oak Hill student Ashawntea
Henderson, 17, who sits next to him, rolls his eyes. But Carleto's not done: "And I'm smart."
But as it turns out, these Georgetown folks -- like his other teachers at Oak Hill Academy -- aren't going to
accept Carleto's assertion at face value. They want more than good grades, more than the right answers on a
multiple-choice test. They want him to prove that he can think.
Forman shows the group an excerpt of a film about juveniles incarcerated at New York's Rikers Island.
Afterward, the law students want to know whether a label makes a difference. It's a hard question. "Inmates?
Residents? Scholars?" one of them asks. "Does it matter what you're called?"
Carleto studies the woman's face to discern what she wants to hear back. It is blank. He struggles. "Not so
much," he says, finally. He looks at her. She seems unconvinced. He worries that he has given the wrong
answer and tries again.
"Back in the community, there are certain [police] patrols in the neighborhood who say, 'I know what you're up
to.' When we come home, some of us are trying to do right, but they basically criticize us because you're already
labeled."
"What are the labels?" Forman asks.
This one is easy for Carleto. He sinks down in his chair and throws it out.
"Trouble," he says.
***
Carleto Bailey is trouble. He is also, as he rightly noted, smart. But he has arrived at Oak Hill Academy with a
few disadvantages: He has been poorly educated in the D.C. public schools, was frequently truant and has had
multiple run-ins with the law. The D.C. Department of Youth Rehabilitation Services, which runs Oak Hill,
won't release information on the specific crime that landed Carleto here because he is still a juvenile, but we do
know this is Carleto's second time at the detention center. His academic knowledge is spotty at best. He can tell
you who James Forman is, but not where the comma falls in a letter's greeting. ("Dear, Fidel" he writes in a
mock letter to Castro during English class.) He is a fairly typical Oak Hill "scholar."
And, once upon a time, he would have been written off But today, staff at the fledgling Oak Hill Academy are
determined to view the kids' captive time here as a window of opportunity to fill in some of the gaping holes in
their education. Part of the reform initiative of Vincent Schiraldi, director of Youth Rehabilitation Services, the
school opened its doors only last year and takes a unique approach to teaching delinquent youth.
What would happen, Oak Hill Academy co-founders Forman and David Domenici wondered, if you seduced
these kids with content that was meaningful to them? What would happen if they had lots of good, caring
teachers in small classrooms? What if one assumed the kids could learn -- and behaved as such? In other words,
what would happen if the District's most challenged students got a private school education, albeit on a campus
of a decidedly different nature?
"The bottom line," says Domenici, "is that the kids most at risk need the highest quality programming, but
they've gotten the worst."
It is this conviction that drove Domenici, who is also the school's principal, and Forman to create three public
charter schools for underprivileged and troubled students in the District over the past 11 years. Called the Maya
Angelou schools, the two high schools and middle school attack educational deficiencies from all angles.
Students attend small classes taught by specially trained staff. The high school day stretches from 9 a.m. to 6
p.m., with three meals provided. Some kids, whose home lives prove too chaotic for study, are offered
supervised housing in the neighborhood. And it works. Last year, 93 percent of Maya Angelou graduates were
accepted into two- or four-year colleges, Domenici says. (According to the District's Office of the State
Superintendent of Education, 29 percent of students who enter ninth grade in D.C. public schools and city
charter schools enroll in postsecondary educational programs within 18 months of graduating high school.)
It is a good model. But even though Domenici and Forman were used to teaching court-involved youth -- about
40 percent of Maya Angelou students had spent some time at Oak Hill -- working inside the gates posed a new
set of challenges. Youth Rehabilitation Services has been under a court monitor for 23 years due in part to a
history of abuse and poor conditions. When Schiraldi took over the department in 2005 and began his reform
efforts by implementing a less punitive and more therapeutic detention model at Oak Hill, he saw immediately
that changing the school was essential. "How could I look at my staff at Oak Hill and say we are about
excellence when the kids were sitting in a school that was a total waste of time from 9 to 3 every day?"
Schiraldi says. Kids sat and watched movies all day. Little, if any teaching was going on, Schiraldi says. "It was
a miserable, miserable school."
Schiraldi immediately began lobbying the D.C. Board of Education hard to hire someone new to operate the
school, and as soon as he got the okay, he put out a request for proposals. Domenici and Forman submitted a
plan that Schiraldi says "blew the other ones out of the water," and in 2007 were awarded a $12 million contract
to run the school for the next three years.
Domenici's and Forman's partnership is a somewhat unlikely one. Domenici is the son of former New Mexico
Republican senator Pete Domenici. He went to Stanford Law School, worked in corporate law for a few years
and then gave it up to teach and work with teen delinquents. Forman is the grandson of Jessica Mitford, who
was the daughter of a British baron and a celebrated civil rights activist and journalist. Forman, who graduated
from Yale Law School, worked as a law clerk for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor and as a D.C. public defender.
After seeing how few good schooling options his teenage clients had, he joined forces with Domenici, whom he
met through a mutual friend, to start an independent school for 20 students in 1997. A year later, it became part
of the first Maya Angelou public charter school.
At Oak Hill Academy, principal Domenici fights with an occasionally maddening bureaucracy for basics:
functioning boilers, permission for a college tour for a group of six students, classes uninterrupted by
corrections staff who sometimes will call three-quarters of the students out in the middle of class to take their
meds. Forman is chairman of the Maya Angelou Public Charter School Board of Directors and board member
of its parent group, the See Forever Foundation. He attacks hurdles from the other side, fundraising and
advocating for juvenile justice reform.
"When David came out to run the school here, it was like "Ocean's 12": Go find all the people you can trust
from your previous mission," Forman jokes. That included past colleagues and even a few Maya Angelou
graduates. Samantha Crandal Simpore, who had been at a then-coed Oak Hill herself when she was 15 on an
accessory assault charge, went to a Maya Angelou school and now runs the Oak Hill Academy welcome center.
"I tell them, I was here, too," Simpore says. She tells each new student about how she was 17 years old and
didn't know her multiplication tables, how she rode the bus to school each day hooked up to her Walkman,
hoping no one knew she was listening to a recitation of times tables. "I say: 'You're at an intersection in your
life. You know what's down the street behind you. Nothing you can do about that. But you have a choice about
what's up the road ahead.'"
Many of the 90 Oak Hill students, ranging in age from 14 to 19, come in performing way below grade level, and
nearly half have been diagnosed with learning disabilities. They are at Oak Hill for an average of 10 months,
cycling in and out on a schedule that has nothing to do with a nine-month academic year. Out of necessity, they
are grouped according to the cell blocks they live on to keep opposing gangs separate. Thirteen-year-olds can be
in classes with 18-year-olds. More than half have been committed to Oak Hill for violent felonies. Fights are
common. (Before the month is out, Carleto will get into a fistfight in the hallway that will delay his release
date.)
Through the use of small classes -- typically five to 14 teens work with one teacher, a teaching assistant and a
guard -- the school organizes the curriculum around four-week themes designed to pique students' curiosity and
get them to think critically about the nature of democracy, social justiCe and their role in the world. For
example, during the Relationship theme, students parse the types of relationships ranging from those between
humans and the natural world (ancient river civilizations) to those between individuals and groups (Pharaohs
and their subjects) to those between humans and ideas (liberation theology). At the same time, in English class,
students will be working on the standard five-paragraph essay via the guiding question: "Why do relationships
matter, and how can relationships be both good and bad for people?" With the current unit, Change, the D.C.
public school system's learning standards are woven into the social studies curriculum under loose headings
such as "Changes in the Way Humans Think About the World and Their Place in It," which becomes a way of
introducing the scientific revolution, the Enlightenment and the Magna Carta. It's a philosophy that emphasizes
learning through making cross-discipline connections long popular in affluent, progressive schools but typically
eschewed in schools for underprivileged kids, where rote learning and a return to such basics often rule.
Oak Hill Academy has also created a course called Advocacy, which the Georgetown law students are co-
teaching, emphasizing this month's theme. Domenici believes learning how the law works in a democracy "is
essential to teaching them to be good citizens."
"We always believed that one of our roles should be to help kids self-advocate or advocate on behalf of a
community," Domenici says. "We think this is a good skill for students individually and also one that our
democracy demands."
But this is an ambitious agenda, and Oak Hill Academy faces significant obstacles. Can you teach teens to think
critically when they're missing the basic underpinnings of education? How do you teach empowerment in a
setting that demands rigid compliance to keep kids from misbehaving?
Although he sometimes grows discouraged, Domenici does his best to buoy his staff members when they learn
that one of their most promising students got into a fight on the unit or "graduated" from the program only to
commit another crime and be sent back. "I talk to staff about the fact that, day to day, our job is to do the
absolute best work you can in the domain that is within your control," he says, reminding them that they don't
control all the pieces of the puzzle. "And if you do that well, you have done the moral and just thing."
His staff members must keep the faith while straddling what are to them two equally potent realities: First,
knowledge is power, and through possessing it, every student is capable of success. And, absent the right
support, failure lurks right around the corner. It sounds like this: "I think Carleto has a good chance of finishing
high school and going on to college," Domenici says. Pause. "Also, he is highly at risk of not doing that."
***
It is a cold day in late January, and Oak Hill is in the midst of the four-week session on change. Dressed in
jeans, a blue shirt and a gray corduroy jacket (the heat's not working), Oak Hill social studies teacher John
Adams paces around the room and then stops to bend over Carleto, who is doodling on a piece of paper at his
desk.
"Pay attention," he says, taking Carleto's pencil. "Carleto, what is today's essential question?"
"What is historical change, and how is it different from other kinds of change?" Carleto says, reading from the
board where Adams has scrawled his topic.
"Yes," Adams says. He ignores a student who is wandering around the room aimlessly, until the student
snatches a hat off a classmate and tosses it toward the hallway. A youth development specialist, which is how
corrections guards are referred to under Schiraldi, appears to be deeply engrossed in a magazine in the back of
the room. But she snatches the hat from mid-air, scowls at the disruptive student and tucks the hat in her pocket.
"Please sit," Adams tells the student.
Not quite sitting, not quite standing, the student perches on the edge of Adams's desk.
Good enough.
Adams continues: "What's the difference between personal change and historical change?"
Silence.
"Anybody?
More silence.
"Ashawntea?"
"Historical change is like a revolution," Ashawntea says.
Adams throws out a list of changes -- getting a raise in salary, moving to a new house, the election of President
Obama -- and Carleto accurately sorts the changes into micro and macro, personal and historical.
"Obama's campaign was all about change," Adams says. "Do you think he is talking historical change?" He
wants the students to think about the president, who has been in office now for two days. What might his first
100 days look like? he asks the students. "What advice would you offer him?"
Carleto looks stumped.
"Just throw out some ideas," Adams prompts. He tells the students that they are going to craft their own letters
to the president, advising him on how to set his agenda for change.
Carleto slaps his pencil down on the desk. "Obama's not reading our letters," he says. He folds his arms across
his chest, skeptical that the president will lay eyes on this letter -- and skeptical, perhaps, that the teachers really
want to hear his ideas.
***
Later, Carleto will acknowledge that he knows quite a bit about the president, as he is reading Barack Obama's
"Dreams From My Father." "It started off as a good book, but it got excellent," he says. He struggles hard to
articulate the book's themes and appeal. "I don't know how to put it," he says finally, "but growing up with -- no
disrespect, but -- a Caucasian mom and an African father, he still made it through."
Sitting in a guard's room off the gym on a February evening, the echoing sound of classmates bouncing
basketballs around the cavernous gym, Carleto goes on to tell his own possibly apocryphal story.
"As a child, he was very fun, happy -- as far as kindergarten through sixth grade. Starting in first grade, he was
on the honor roll and was also making it to school every day," he says, beginning in third person, but quickly
lapsing into first. "In the late stages of middle school; at the end of eighth grade, I started smoking weed, doing
stuff I wasn't supposed to be doing."
He takes full responsibility. "No one peer-pressured me or anything. I was liking what was going on when I was
high," he explains. He, like almost all the teens at Oak Hill, denies being involved in a gang. Still, Carleto says
that his best friend since elementary school was killed in 10th grade in "a neighborhood thing." "Nowadays,
anyone can just ride up on you, and you can be mistaken for someone else and be shot," he says, explaining that
his buddy was shot because of a "miscommunication." "It wasn't intended for us," he says, insisting that he and
his friend, nicknamed "Smoke," were just waiting for the bus. Then he announces, "I don't want to talk about
it."
So he doesn't, though it clearly haunts him: He will doodle "R.I.P. Smoke" on the cover of his blue folder or on
a piece of loose-leaf paper or the comer of the chalkboard.
He's happy to talk about Oak Hill Academy though, where he has a 3.5 grade-point average after six months.
(Domenici says Carleto is in the top 25 percent of students at Oak Hill and tests fairly high on assessments.)
Carleto likes the school even though it is a bit easy for him, being a senior in with freshman. He complains that
the classes are too short and that the guards are always interrupting them to move on just when the class is
getting warmed up. That really bugs him, but he doesn't say much. He says that he will be leaving Oak Hill in
two months and intends to finish his schooling at Oak Hill's transition center in the District, from which he says
he will graduate this June. When he gets out, there are a couple of things he wants to do right off, he says. First,
he intends to see his girlfriend, then go out to a restaurant and then go to "the Adidas shop in Georgetown,
where my mom will get me some stuff-- and my dad, too."
He says his mom was pretty upset when he got arrested and sent to Oak Hill. "She was. . . I'm going to say she
was kind of like surprised at my actions, what I done," Carleto says. "You know how they say 'Whatever hides
in the dark, comes out?'. . . She was not ashamed of me, but disappointed in me." Meanwhile, she makes the
long, 45-minute trek from the District to Laurel to visit. "Every weekend, both days!" he says.
He is alternately vague and specific when he describes his family life. He has four brothers -- ages 27, 23, 16
and 11 -- and reports that he and his two younger brothers live with his mom. He says his mom works as a
secretary, but he struggles to remember where. "She was working with, what's that program downtown by the
Washington Monument, dealing with Smokey the Bear?. . . I'm trying to think. It's right by the Holocaust
Museum. It's a brick building. She works there."
Later, Carleto's school case worker, Essence Jones, will offer a somewhat different account of Carleto's life.
Although Carleto is in 12th grade, he will not graduate in June as he says. He is still six credits shy, Jones says.
And it will be at least three months -- not two -- before his release.
Carleto's father is not part of his life, Jones says. The teenager had been living with his aunt before coming to
Oak Hill. His mother, who has a rap sheet dating to 1982, has been in and out of jail for years, arrested
repeatedly for a string of felonies and misdemeanors, including possession and distribution of drugs, as well as
prostitution. She has been in prison since 2005, serving three consecutive sentences totaling seven years for
assault with a dangerous weapon, attempted distribution of cocaine and violation of bail.
She is not visiting Carleto on weekends.
***
By the end of February, still in the midst of the unit on change, the Oak Hill teens file into their advocacy class,
jostling each other, edgy. It is unseasonably warm outside, and they do not want to be here. Reluctantly they
take their seats, and Carleto positions himself so that he can see the patch of brown grass and mud in the prison
yard, visible through the door someone has wedged open. Occasionally, a breeze wafts into the room.
Today, the law students decide to tackle the topic of disproportionate minority confinement. If youths of color
are 35 percent of the general population in the United States, but 62 percent of the prison population, this is
disproportionate minority confinement, the law students explain. They refer the teens to a handout each has on
the desk in front of him, an article excerpt from New American Media, "Racism of the Juvenile Justice System
Revealed," to explain that this isn't simply because people of color commit more crimes: "African-American
youths are 4.5 times more likely, and Latinos 2.3 times more likely, than white youths to be detained for
identical offenses. About half of white teenagers arrested on a drug charge go home without being formally
charged and drawn into the system. Only one-quarter of black teens arrested on drug charges catch a similar
break."
Although youth of color are 100 percent of Oak Hill's population of inmates and, indeed, 100 percent of all 721
juvenile delinquents currently committed to Youth Rehabilitation Services care in settings across the city,
disproportionate minority confinement is a hard concept for the teens to grasp. Georgetown student Abby Fee
tries a pie graph, a bar graph, a sketch of disproportionate Xs and Os. Blank stares.
Then it slowly dawns on Ashawntea what they're talking about. "Hey," he says, suddenly sitting forward.
"They're switched around! Basically, there's more of us juveniles in prison than white juveniles -- even though
there's more of them."
"Yes," Fee says. "So the population outside the system looks a lot different from that inside the system."
Ashavvntea sits back in his chair to mull this over.
Fee and the other law students move the teens from the statistics to a speculative discussion about the reasons
behind these figures. They have prepared a role-playing game to coax the teens into thinking about this from
different perspectives. Then, they want the students to practice advocating for change. "So, we're going to have
three roles," Fee says, dividing the teens into pairs. "One group is a 15-year-old; one group is playing a math
teacher; and one group is playing a city council member."
Carleto and his partner learn that they are to play a city council member who is preparing a presentation on
reforming the police department. Carleto doesn't want to be a city council member. He doesn't even want to be
here today. He wraps and unwraps his pencil in the bottom of his T-shirt. He puts his glasses on, then takes
them off.
"How could you maintain better relationships" with police? Fee asks, settling herself into a chair to help Carleto
and his partner work through this.
Carleto throws his pencil down on the table. Won't answer. She asks again. Silence. Finally, he offers a sullen
challenge. "Stop harassing people for no reason?"
"How do you want them to treat people?"
"Equally," he says. He picks up the pencil and tap, tat, taps it on the desk. Fee tries to get him to be more
specific.
"Don't arrest for small problems. Instead, take them home, and tell your family what you're doing," Carleto's
partner says, unconsciously slipping into second person.
"And how do you think they can help crime be stopped or decreased in general?" Fee prods.
A long pause. Could be their minds are whirring busily; could be they're spacing out. Fee, a teacher before
enrolling at Georgetown, takes it in stride. She taps the paper a couple of times and repeats the question.
"Don't have 10 or 15 cars patrolling and then have an area where you barely see a police car," Carleto says.
"Patrol each ward equally?" asks Fee.
Carleto writes that down, then adds: "I see a lot of cruel things they done that ain't right." Fee nods, encourages
him to write it down.
Carleto's partner grabs the pencil and speaks as he writes. "The majority of police shouldn't carry guns. I could
say, 'The majority of police are racist.'"
"But how would you fix that?" Fee. prods.
"A camera on their car to catch them if they're doing it -- but a secret one," Carleto suggests. He sits up
straighter in his chair. "And don't just pull over people because they're black. They can say anything, that's the
reason why I pulled you over, because your headlights are off or whatever." Suddenly, Carleto is on a roll, and
he rattles off a list of improvements.
"Call to order of the city council," says Georgetown student Dania Ayoubi.
Carleto and his partner stand in the front of the class. "Hello, I'm Mr. Jones, and I am a city councilman,"
Carleto says, glancing down at his paper and twisting the tail of his shirt with his free hand. "We have some
complaints from the different communities and wards about police, and these are some of our suggestions about
cracking down on officers." He sounds nervous as he begins the list. "Stop harassing minorities and other ethnic
youths, and treat them equal to the same race that you are. Also, police don't arrest if there is a situation at the
school like a fight or anything. I feel they should not be arrested but taken home. Then tell their parents why
this happened and what the reason was for being stopped by the police." He moves briskly through the
suggestions and twice, tentatively, tries actually making eye contact with the audience. In conclusion, he says,
"verbally abusing" youth won't be tolerated any more. "Basically, we want to crack down on the officers and
have them removed, if so."
Another pair of students rises to begin a presentation, but the teens are interrupted by the crackle of a guard's
walkie-talkie. "Time to go!" the guard announces.
The law students are surprised -- they are not quite done -- but politely acquiesce.
"Wait!" Ashawntea says, standing up. "We got 10 more minutes."
"It will take you five minutes to get your stuff together and get your coats on," the guard says.
"But we have 10 minutes!" Carleto insists. He and Ashawntea sit back down and fold their arms. "It's only 2:20.
We got 10 more minutes still."
The guard takes a beat, then shrugs and concedes Carleto's point. He goes back out into the hall to wait.
Carleto shoots Ashawntea a look of surprise. His advocacy worked.
"Yesss!" Ashawntea hisses under his breath.
Karen Houppert is a contributing writer for the Magazine. She can be reached at me@karenhouppert corn.
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Saturday, April 11, 2009 6:11 PM
Re: DPRK - Final P5+J text
Am sure it will be fine. Will pass that on.
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

cheryl.mills
Saturday, April 11, 2009 6:24 PM
Delivered: Re: Haiti Draft -- Attached and Below in Text
details.txt
Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Both I and others -- including Jim and Tom D feel very good about the statement.
Let me know if you have any questions.
Happy Easter! -
Jake
 --- 

jake.sullivar
Saturday, April 11, 2009 6:56 PM
H
Delivered: Re: UNSCR/DPRK
details.txt
Your message was delivered to the recipient.
,
 --- 

Saturday, April 11, 2009 6:59 PM
Delivered: Any news?
details.txt
Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Happy easter to you! We just finished one hunt at the domenici clan and headed to my mother's so will try you after
830pm.
Cdm
 --- 

S000 good the old. E mail is working----great to connect. Super news re rescue of our. Merchant.
Marine. Capt. I am very close to the unions of which crew are memebers. They were carrying our. forign aid food and
VERY proud to do it( let's. Salute. Them the. Navy and the. Mission
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
 --- 

My revisions in text in caps (or brackets for deletions) — sending to them once we speak shortly.
Cd m
STATEMENT BY ROBERT WOOD, ACTING SPOKESMAN
Durban Review Conference: U.S. Position
[end]
 --- 

43
 --- 

Your message was delivered to the recipient.
 --- 

Print for HRC
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, April 13, 2009 8:42 AM
H
Brasilia
Tom was honored and overwhelmed and accepted.
He said you have made him very happy and he will not let you down.
He speaks Portuguese and served there so it also has personal meaning to him.
He indicated Lula would likely be very pleased by the pick as they enjoy a good relationship and have for years.
cdm
45
 --- 

You betcha
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
 --- 

FYI
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, April 13, 2009 12:04 PM
H
FW: decision update
 --- 

Madam Secretary,
Thanks again. n1send the Princeton speech text to Jake. On Libya, I did talk to New York -- the Libyans did
not object to our text in the end, and we're on track for adoption of statement this afternoon. All best, Bill
 --- 

With apologies for the delay in getting back to you on this, below are the key admin attendees at AIPAC
conferences. For certain years in the 1990s, we're still looking for the participant lists.
2008: Rice spoke.
2007: Cheney spoke.
2006: Cheney spoke.
2005: Rice spoke.
2004: Bush spoke.
2002: Bush spoke.
2001: Powell spoke.
2000: Bush spoke.
1997: Gore and Albright spoke.
1996: President Clinton spoke.
1995: President Clinton spoke.
 --- 

FYI — you want me to have a letter done back saying thank you for sending — you appreciate his thoughts?
See below
 --- 

Dear Secretary Clinton:
I am a Professional Member of the American Society for Industrial Security, and
the American College of Forensic Examiners; I have guest lectured and taught
industrial security management, homeland security, port and harbor security and
critical incident response management.
As elated as everyone is over the splendid outcome of the Maersk Alabama
hijacking case, as I had predicted, in today's news, it is reported that four
additional vessels were attacked and now Terrorists are holding some 60 hostages.
Before anyone, does anything regarding Somalia, may I make the following
comments and observations.
What is going on in the Gulf of Aden is as an organized criminal enterprise for
profit. There are some 250 hostages being held and they are being kept as well as
they can be under the circumstances because the terrorists are expecting a payday
out of this. As soon as they see any form of direct Military action in the northeast
at the mouth of the Gulf of Aden, I can assure you more Americans will be
abducted, and we will see another series of video beheadings under a Democratic
watch.
I would recommend that the Secretary encourage the United Nations to create an
International Maritime Security Working Group. Since the Shipping Industry has
already absorbed something like Fifty Billion Dollars regarding the various piracy
incidents in 2008 alone; they have the resources to contract private
security/military contractors who could work onboard merchant shipping in
International Waters.
Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton
April 14, 2009
Page 2 of 2.
They could rotate from the northern edge of the threat envelope to the southern
end and take direct action on a case-by-case basis. Through this endeavor, as
these targets of opportunity begin to dry up, so will the piracy activity that the
World community has pacified by the payment of extortion money.
Thank you in advance for your anticipated interest, and cooperation in this matter.
Sincerely,
ROBERT A. DANFORD, ACFE. ASIS.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI — How comfortable are you with us thinking about doing something more with this
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Tuesday, April 14, 2009 7:00 PM
Mills, Cheryl D; H
Sullivan, Jacob J
RE: Questions Taken at the 04-14-09 Daily Press Briefing
 --- 

Adding Melanne who is addressing.
 --- 

Lissa Muscatine
Tuesday, April 14, 2009 10:58 PM
Speech Draft
I'm faxing you a draft of the speech. It is way too long and something of a hybrid, having started out as a big
policy speech in advance of the summit. Now it is a town hall one day before the POTUS outlines his agenda at
the intervention. My suggestion is that you review this long draft, which covers a lot of ground (though not
everything). In the meantime, I'll work on an abbreviated version that focuses on your main themes -- the
urgency of our working together with other countries to narrow the income gap and reduce poverty by creating
a safety net of education, food security, and public safety that unleashes the full potential of the people and
nations of our Hemisphere.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FFYI
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

ok
 --- 

See below — we're meeting at 10:30am
 --- 


 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B6
fyi
 --- 

I can fax you the boiled down version now or Huma can print it for you in the morning.
This is the 5th summit. Some of the others evidently were not "official."
 --- 

See below.
 --- 

Will do.
Valmoro, Lona 1 <ValmoroU@state.gov>
Thursday, April 16, 2009 6:18 AM
HAbedin
Re: Schedule
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Thursday, April 16, 2009 8:01 AM
H
Traffic below from elleny B6
fyi
 --- 

w000 hoo!
 --- 

TEL:
CEL:
Will also add to your call list.
 --- 

Nothing new to report- count yours -- our flights were delayed on runways so I got home at midnightl
xo
cdm
 --- 

These are the documents you should have.
1) HFAC remarks by courier
2) Mitchell Report by courier
3) Verma Q and A by fax
4) Cabinet statement by fax
14
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

really liked
 --- 

Yes will do.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Yes I will get on it.
 --- 

We'll have this for you.
B6
 --- 

Dear Secretary Clinton,
Welcome back, and I hope that your proposals on universal NATO ROE's for piracy are moving ahead. I just wanted to
let you know that I will be testfying at a hearing of the US-China Commission on Chinese foreign-directed information
operations on 30 April, and also participating in a symposium at Harvard on Iran and Afghanistan later that day, so I will
let you know if anything of interest comes out of those events.
I remain intrigued by your suggestion that I speak with Michelle Flournoy. Should I reach out to her, or wait for her to
be in touch?
Many thanks, as ever.
Yours, Jackie
On 4/8/09, newmyer
> Hi, Yes; I am at
wrote:
en route to airport). Thank you!
> Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry
>
 --- 

19
 --- 

Fyi — lauren will meet you at the Renwick, will have your remarks.
Per your request, we have set up a hearing call tonite. 9:15pm ok?
Isabelle at 7:45.
 --- 

i think hes trying to see if he can get there immediately
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Tuesday, April 21, 2009 8:06 PM
H2
 --- 

745
 --- 

yes -- happy to do so. this work is in full swing.
On Tue, Apr 21, 2009 at 8:55 PM, H <HDR22 !,clintonemail.com> wrote:
Could you work w Derek, Philippe and others to draft this report for us to send to the President after our next
trip?
We could workd on it during the trip. Let's discuss tomorrow. Thx.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

I will forward these changes - we have made a few other tweaks.
We believe that it is useful to distribute it as your brief oral testimony (you've been asked to speak for 7-10
minutes -- this is 11 or so).
On the E3+3 v. P5+1, they are identical, just different names.
On Tue, Apr 21, 2009 at 10:49 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
Pls forward the following questions/changes to Tomicah whose email address I do not have:
P3-- What is the E3+3 vs the P5+1?
B5
 --- 

I'm being told -- and still trying to verify -- that as of last week, we've succumbed to the Europeans' preferred
term. That there was interagency discussion of this, and that going forward, we will join the rest of the world in
calling the P5+1 the E3+3.
This is the first I've heard of this, but I will track it down.
On Tue, Apr 21, 2009 at 11:03 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemai1.com> wrote:
Why don't we keep using P5+1?
 --- 

I agree we should add Brazil to regional anchors, but worry about lumping India in with China and
Russia. Propose adding an India sentence in the Asia section.
On Tue, Apr 21, 2009 at 10:49 PM, H <HDR22@c1intonemai1.com> wrote:
Pis forward the following questions/changes to Tomicah whose email address I do not have:
P3-- What is the E3+3 vs the P5+1?
 --- 

E is Europe.
E3 is UK, France, and Germany.
+3 is US, China, Russia
So it's the same 6 as the P5+1, just a different name.
On Tue, Apr 21, 2009 at 11:21 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemai1.com> wrote:
What does it mean? What is the E and who are the three?
 --- 

And I feel ashamed that I had to subject you to this.
On Tue, Apr 21, 2009 at 11:31 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemai1.com> wrote:
I already feel safer.
 --- 

Cheryl Mills <
Wednesday, April 22, 2009 6:14 AM
H
RE: (no subject)
Oh My — see below.
cdm
 --- 

8:40 am DEPART Private Residence *En route Raybum House Office Building
8:40 am CONFERENCE CALL w/HEARING PREP TEAM
9:00 am En route Raybum House Office Building *Dial-1n Number: 202-647-0817
PIN: 12345 *Staff: Rich Verma
9:00 am ARRIVE Raybum House Office Building
9:30 am TESTIMONY BEFORE HOUSE FOREIGN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
1:30 pm Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2172
1:30 pm DEPART Rayburn House Office Building *En route State Department
1:45 pm ARRIVE State Department
1:55 pm PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
2:00 pm Secretary's Office
2:00 pm MEETING w/HEARING PREP TEAM
2:30 pm Secretary's Office or Secretary's Conference Room
2:35 pm KEYNOTE ADDRESS AT STATE DEPARTMENT'S "GREENING
3:15 pm DIPLOMACY' EARTH DAY EVENT Dean Acheson Auditorium, First Floor
3:30 pm INTERVIEW w/MARK LANDLER, THE NEW YORK TIMES
4:00 pm Secretary's Office *On The Record.
4:10 pm DEPART State Department *En route Renaissance Mayflower Hotel
4:25 pm ARRIVE Renaissance Mayflower Hotel
24
4:30 pm REMARKS AT GLOBAL PHILANTHROPY FORUM
5:00 pm Grand Ballroom *Renaissance Mayflower Hotel *Approx. 400 ppl. Attend.
5:05 pm DEPART Renaissance Mayflower Hotel *En route White House
5:10 pm ARRIVE White House
5:15 pm SMALL GROUP MEETING
6:15 pm General Jones' Office, West Wing
6:15 pm MEETING w/DEPUTY NSC ADVISOR TOM DONILON
6:45 pm First Floor, West Wing *One on one.
6:45 pm DEPART White House *En route Kuwaiti Ambassador's Residence
7:00 pm ARRIVE Ambassador's Residence
7:00 pm KEYNOTE SPEAKER AT THE EARTH DAY GALA DINNER HOSTED
9:15 pm BY THE AMBASSADOR OF KUWAIT AND MRS. AL-SABAH
Kuwaiti Ambasssador's Residence, 2940 Tilden Street, NW
9:15 pm DEPART Ambassador's Residence *En route Private Residence
9:30 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
25
 --- 


 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 24, 2009 12:29 PM
H
FW: FYI: I
FYI
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 24, 2009 12:40 PM
FW: Re
FYI
 --- 

34
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 24, 2009 1:50 PM
Abedin, Huma
FW: North Korea Human Rights Envoy
if they now do believe a full-time slot is there? B6
B5
cdm
 --- 

I will -- EAP and Bosworth apparently are fine per below
So likely more judgment call.
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 24, 2009 4:36 PM
H
Updates
Yes
Wants to talk with family, and with us re: role and in particular re: in the portfolio given
Holding so can interview on Monday and then will offer it to him so he knows he is part of her team;
Message on several cell phones — he is apparently traveling.
No word on et.
cdm
38
 --- 

April 25, 2009
Clinton, in Iraq, Blames 'Rejectionists' for Violence By MARK LANDLER BAGHDAD — Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton arrived here Saturday morning for a one-day visit, delivering an American show of support for Iraq as it battles a
sudden eruption of violence, in the wake of suicide bombings that killed at least 140 people and wounded several
hundred more on Thursday and Friday.
Mrs. Clinton, in her first visit to Baghdad as secretary of state, acknowledged that the attacks were worrisome. She said
she would seek a briefing on the security situation from the American military commander, Gen. Ray Odierno, in her first
meeting on Saturday, a day packed with appointments.
But she played down suggestions that the attacks augured a return to the relentless sectarian violence that convulsed
Iraq in 2006. She said they did not signal that a new jihadist movement was taking root in Iraq, which could derail the
progress the country has made in the last two years.
"In Iraq, there will always be political conflicts," Mrs. Clinton said to reporters before setting off on the unannounced
visit Friday evening. "But I really believe that Iraq, as a whole, is on the right track."
She characterized the latest bout of violence as the last gasp of "rejectionists" who fear that the government will
succeed in creating a united and peaceful Iraq. The suicide bombings, she said, are "in an unfortunately tragic way, a
signal that the rejectionists fear that Iraq is going in the right direction."
"Are there going to be bad days? Yes, there are," Mrs. Clinton said. But she added, "If you look at the evidence,
overwhelmingly the progress that's been made has been positive."
The Obama administration, she said, was determined to help Iraq achieve "stability, sovereignty, and self-reliance," as
the United States prepares to pull out the last of its troops by the end of 2011.
Mrs. Clinton has been a regular visitor here, coming three times as a senator to chart the progress of a war she voted to
authorize, but later said had been mismanaged by the Bush administration. She said she was pleased to be back, though
the attacks have cast a shadow over her visit.
While the violence is far below the worst levels in 2006, 18 major attacks this month have kindled fears that Baathist and
jihadist elements could be reconstituting themselves into a smaller, but still deadly, insurgency that will exploit the
withdrawal of American troops between now and 2011.
Mrs. Clinton compared these latest suicide bombings to a spectacular terrorist attack that occurred several months after
the Good Friday peace accord ended years of conflict in Northern Ireland.
At times, her analysis almost echoed that of former Vice President Dick Cheney and former Defense Secretary Donald
Rumsfeld. When the sectarian violence was relentless several years ago, Mr. Cheney spoke of the insurgency being in its
"last throes," while Mr. Rumsfeld talked of "dead-enders" who kept fighting a lost cause.
On Friday, Gen. David Petraeus, the head of the military's Central Command, testified before a House appropriations
committee that the suicide bombers may have been part of a militant network based in Tunisia. Four of the bombers, he
said, were from Tunisia.
Mrs. Clinton said she did not have specific information on the bombers, but said: "We've seen suicide bombers from
many countries in Iraq over the last six years. It's unfortunate that young men, and occasionally even a young woman,
would travel to Iraq to kill other people in that way."
41
The violence did not seem to curtail Mrs. Clinton's ambitions for her brief visit. In addition to General Odierno, she was
scheduled to meet a retinue of Iraqi leaders, including the president, Jalal Talabani; the prime minister, Nuni Kamal al-
Maliki; and the foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari.
She is also playing host at a roundtable of Iraqi women, something she has done in previous trips to Iraq. And she is to
hold a town-hall meeting with Iraqi students, as well as members of nongovernmental organizations and provincial
reconstruction teams.
This is a format Mrs. Clinton savored as a presidential candidate, and that, as secretary of state, she has used from South
Korea to Turkey. "I want to listen," she said, "I want to respond to their questions and concerns. I want some feedback
and ideas of about how are we going to make this transition as successful as possible."
When President Obama visited Baghdad earlier this month, dusty skies prevented him from traveling by helicopter from
Baghdad International Airport into the city. He met with Mr. Maliki at a palace near the airport and General Odierno at
the American base, Camp Victory.
The new American ambassador, Christopher R. Hill, beat Mrs. Clinton to Baghdad by one day. He was confirmed by the
Senate on Tuesday after a lengthy process that was held up by Republican senators, who objected to his lack of
experience in the Arab world and his handling of negotiations with North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.
In Iraq, Mr. Hill will spearhead the shift in emphasis by the United States from military to civilian operations. Some Iraq
experts said the American civilian presence here had been lacking momentum since the departure in February of the last
United States ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker.
 --- 

Clinton says Iraq on right track
BAGHDAD (AP) - U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton says this week's deadly suicide bombings in Iraq are a
sign that extremists fear the Iraqi government is succeeding.
On her first visit to Iraq as America's top diplomat, Clinton said the country has made tremendous strides despite the
recent violence and continues to deserve support as the Obama administration moves to reduce the U.S. military
presence there.
Clinton arrived in Baghdad Saturday on an unannounced trip after suicide bombings in the capital and outside killed
at least 148 people on Thursday and Friday. The attacks have exposed gaps in security as Iraq takes over from U.S. forces
in protecting the country.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

K - nothing to report except on cos retreat - interesting cony, discussion of reform agenda which I want to download to
jack, polling and appearance by bho.
Think I want to have messina come over to give ypu polling pres on what connects bho to people and his success and
why they care about certain things.
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, April 26, 2009 10:29 AM
H
Fw: Bob King
Fyi
 --- 

Was trying to call out to you.
There are troops in there from camp leguene deploying to afghanistan. Will want pictures etc with you.
51
 --- 

Calling you now
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, April 26, 2009 9:54 PM
H
FW: Geneva
Resume.rtf
RELEASE IN PART
B5,B6
B6
B5
B6
B6
This is who Esther wants
1
 --- 

You can't likely read the attachment but it is a long letter to Jim saying he's sorry he has missed Jim's calls (nothing about
mine) and that he is taking job with energy.
Copying huma to print for you.
Cdm
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, April 26, 2009 9:55 PM
H
FW: VET: Arturo Valenzuela
cdm
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, April 27, 2009 11:24 AM
H
FW: Handover in SCA - May 15
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, April 27, 2009 2:19 PM
H
FW.
CV Apr09.doc
 --- 

Correct address is:
You had just inverted the "o" and the "u" in her last name.
Lauren
 --- 

Secretary Clinton,
Thank you! Will update you when I hear from her, and if there is anything else I should do, let me know. All
best, Jackie
ps Saw that Foreign Minister Yeo was on your schedule today. Fyi, he is one of my favorite Singaporeans
because of this 2007 speech on China, which he posted to his blog (!):
April 12, 2007
Foreign Minister George Yeo's speech at a dinner organised by the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy on 5
February 2007, which he gave off-the-cuff.
Thank you Kishore for your kind words. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen. I was in India two weeks ago, had
a good trip, spent nine days there. While in Calcutta after calling on the Chief Minister, I had a bit of time to
look around so I attended a mass at Mother Theresa's house. Very interesting gathering; there was a Singapore
nun there, she had been there for over ten years; Sister Maria Tony. I wondered why someone from Singapore
would want to dedicate her life to picking up the dead and the dying in the back alleys of Calcutta and living
that life. There were many nuns there who were in their ninth year. They take their first vow in the fifth year,
renewable every year. In the tenth year they have to decide - final vows for eternity. So if you are not sure,
please, there's a way out; if you are sure, then you're in the room. So the priest gave a very tough sermon and
while he was talking, I could hear the din of traffic noise outside, in the streets of Calcutta. Then suddenly, I
heard the call of the muezzin. Now this is a Hindu city. I told myself, I thought wow, what diversity in this
country, India, and its ability to internalise this diversity and to find it unremarkable that the tiny woman from
Albania should come into their midst, become one of them and then when she was beatified, was celebrated as
an Indian, on the way to canonization.
China and India in that comparison- China is not India. China has a very different sense of itself; its deep
internal construction is very different. Superficially there are similarities, as there is between China and the US
and China and Europe. But if you look into it's deep construction, it is very different. When we talk about
China's future and China in the 21st century, how China will behave in a world community, China's attitudes
towards democracy, towards law, towards social justice. It is important first to look into this deep construction
because that is their nature. Naturally we should not be deterministic, there is nothing inevitable in human
history, but when we understand its nature, it becomes easier to anticipate its moves and you'll be less suprised
by its actions.
A few years ago, the Chinese government embarked on a major project which is its dynastic duty- to write the
history of the Qing dynasty, the Manchus, from 1368 to 1644. Ever since the Han dynasty, roughly
contemporaneous with the Roman Empire, they developed a historiographic tradition of each dynasty writing
the history of the previous period. So Sima Qian of the Later Han wrote of the earlier Han and the entire period
before that; then later on they wrote about the Later Han, Jin wrote up the Three Kingdoms; Ming wrote up the
Yuan: The Yuan, which was Mongol in its origins wrote up the Sung. Sung wrote up the Tang dynasty which
was the Classical Period. The last dynasty, the Qing, collapsed in the Republican Revolution of 1911; this is
now 2007. I think in 2003, they embarked on this project, 'The Official History of the Qing dynasty'. When the
former Vice Premier Li Lanqing was in Singapore recently, I asked him about it. He said "we told the scholars
not to rush this project". I asked him how long it would take to write this history. He said it would take many
years, easily 10 years. I said, "have you collected the material?" He said yes. I asked, "external sources?" He
said yes, external sources too. All the countries, the Vatican, European countries, the whole lot; all assembled -
24 official histories, this would be the 26th. And Li's instruction to them was not to be too quick to draw
conclusions!
Now Mao Tze Tung was a revolutionary, he was a great revolutionary. He overturned everything before but he
knew his history, he read the 24 histories, and not only did he read them, he annotated them. But he wrote with
a terrible, illegible scrawl, so scholars had to decipher those scrawls. Then they wrote commentaries on his
commentaries and now it's all published. It is very difficult for the Chinese to depart from their own history
because it's the same great plains, the same mountains more or less, the same neighbours more or less and they
have seen the same patterns recur. So a long time ago during the Ming dynasty they wrote up the romantic
period of the Three Kingdoms. The first line said: "Below heaven, great movements, great currents, long
disunity leads to unity and long unity leads to disunity." So they accept as a part of their own deep nature that
there are cycles in their civilisation; that they have ups and downs. In recent years, when you visit them, you
could sense them feeling their own re-emergence, it's a bit scary. In the initial years, they were lacking in
confidence, they asked many questions, but now they know that there is an organic vitality. It is like an
adolescent who watches his own development, and conscious of it. I say scary because for those of us who live
on the periphery of that empire, what happens there will radiate its influence on us and eventually, to a greater
or lesser degree envelope us.
How do we see China? I think to begin with, it's important not to try and, from an intellectual viewpoint,
transpose our own experiences on to China, because I believe it will develop according to its own logic,
according to its own DNA. It is growing now, it will continue to grow, it will develop its own contradictions
and one day those contradictions, many years from now, will lead to its own decline. So they say at the
beginning of a dynasty the taxes are light but the treasury is full, and at the end of a dynasty, the taxes are
crushing but the treasury is empty. The important thing to realise about China is that some things are deeply
resistant to change. Take Confucius. Every time they had to overturn a dynasty, they had to overturn Confucius,
because Confucius justified the status quo. So throughout the 19th century, whether it was the Taiping
Revolution, the Communist movement or Sun Yat Sen; they spent their lives debunking Confucius. It reached
its final moment when they criticised Zhou Enlai together with Confucius- no- Lin Biao together with
Confucius. That was the last paroxysm. Today, Hu Jingtao said [in Mandarin He Xie She Hui ], "harmonious
society". Suddenly you hear the resonance of Confucius coming back. And everywhere in the world on the
pattern of Alliance Francaise, the Goethe Institute, the USIA, they establish Confucius Institutes and the
learning of the Confucianist classics are coming back with remarkable force in China, not yet in the state
curriculum but just parents wanting to teach their children the Confucianist ditties. Now why is this important?
From Mao to Deng to Jiang Zemin, at every stage, they re-interpreted Marx. They are comfortable with the
young Marx, the idea of the superstructure on the economic base, the idea that politics is concentrated
economics- that they like. But the class struggle, they downplay. They talk about the Three Represents, the
progressive forces, the progressive elements, they nurture those. Now Hu Jingtao says "harmonious society",
"peaceful re-emergence". This mindset has a certain attitude towards law, has a certain attitude towards religion,
towards democracy and towards foreign policy and I would like, to deal with each in turn.
Joseph Needham many years ago, I think in the 60's, the man who wrote The Science and Civilisation of China,
that great encyclopedic work; he said its not that the Chinese have no legal tradition. In fact, by his estimation,
the Chinese had a greater corpus of legal codification than the West. A greater corpus of legal codification than
the West! Surprise, surprise. But the idea that the Emperor is below the law, that is completely alien to their
thinking. Where did that idea come from? Well in the West, you may trace it back to Hammurabi, you may
trace it back to Moses, to Greece, to Rome. But if you trace the evolution of that DNA, it goes back, way back,
into its early beginnings. The Chinese had a very different evolutionary starting point. It was not in law, it was
in an idea they call '1i' which is proper conduct among human beings. They believe, deep in their instincts, that
law is only a means towards justice, and that when the outcome of law is perverse, then that law must be
overridden, because justice, proper conduct, the proper relationship among human beings must take
precedence. And to suddenly say that all that had happened in the previous dynasties, all that the earlier
histories have summarised, are all wrong and that they should instead adopt something with its origins in
Western Europe, which had as its crowning moment the crowning of Charlemagne by the Pope in the year 800;
to them, what are you talking about? For the Chinese, laws are more like regulations, means towards a larger
end. Their attitude towards democracy follows a parallel pattern.
Democracy is not an end in itself, democracy is a means and they are quite happy to consider democracy as a
useful means towards government and that at appropriate places and appropriate levels, democracy is good. So
at the village and the township level they have democracy, it is a universal franchise. They approve a slate of
candidates, and they have fierce elections, fierce campaigning, and those who are incompetent or arrogant or
despotic, they get chucked out. But once you reach the level of the cities and the provinces, they say no. No
direct democracy. Why not? Because they do not believe, with their view of the universe, that that is the way to
produce good government. Any more than the Catholic Church believes that the way to elect the Pope is
through universal franchise. That the parishioners should decide who should be the parish priest. The Parish
Council, maybe, that's ok. But the parish priest? Bishops? Universal franchise? That's against God's laws. They
have that kind of instinct embedded in them, it is not Communist, it is just Chinese. And they know that too
much democracy, invariably leads to 'localitis'; of favouritism towards friends, relatives, people who are from
the same villages whom we have a relationship with.
We have the same problem in Singapore, in fact this problem exists throughout East Asia. Till today, apart from
Singapore, among Chinese communities and among many East Asian communities, the idea that ultimate
control of the business should go outside the family is unpersuasive. You talk to Li Ka-shing, you talk to Robert
Kwok, you talk to Lim Soe Liong, you talk to any of them; they will go back to the family. Why? Because they
believe that in the end, what matters at the deepest level, is trust. And the family guarantees you that trust.
This is also the Indian wisdom. So you have the Marwaris controlling the economy of Calcutta, you have the
Parsees, you have Sindhis, of which Kishore is a member, you have the Chettiars. They operate on the basis of
deep trust and at a completely different level from that of contract law. And because they distrust local
affiliations, in two dynasties, Ming and Qing, no senior official could serve within 400 miles of where he was
born. No local official to serve within 400 miles, so in other words, in Singapore, no Singaporean can govern
Singapore. They go beyond that, today there's almost no province in China where the provincial leader is from
that province. Now you consider this, you transpose this onto Europe, it's as if routinely, the President of France
is not French. And if you are a German, you are disqualified as a Chancellor of the Republic. And an Italian
cannot be trusted to serve in Rome. Ancient wisdom! What is remarkable is this is accepted as legitimate. If you
are Cantonese and you have a Northener squatting over you, you do not consider it perverse or an abomination.
This is part of life and in fact, you are more likely to have impartial governor than if a local boy were to be
there, because he is more likely to favour those who are related to him or those who are his friends.
So when you talk democracy to the Chinese, it is against this cultural backdrop. So what applied to the Qing
dynasty, the Ming dynasty, they have taken a step further recently in China. They introduced even more rules,
governing the circumstances under which you are disqualified from serving in the area near where you were
born. You can't stay in a ministry for too long, you can't stay in a department for too long beacuse if you stay
too long, you develop affiliations and those affiliations will result in sidedoors and guanxi and corruption. Of
course, many of these rules will still be breached, and there will be scandals from time to time and they will act
on those scandals. For as long as the central leadership is pristine, the system can be maintained. But one day
they will become corrupt, as in so many previous dynasties, and a downward spiral begins. And it is very
difficult in that situation to reverse it.
So I mentioned at the table that for India, it's not a country that can sustain a revolution, because its deep
structure would not allow for it. I think China is a country which can only be renewed through periodic
revolutions. Kishore asked me when- I said well maybe in 200 years time because these are long cycles and
they expect as a matter of course that the history of the People's Republic would not be written by the People's
Republic. It will be written by the next dynasty. Except that right now they say we shouldn't call it a dynasty,
we are now democrats, we are a republic, there is no Emperor...Well, whatever term you call it, it will be done
much later.
Let me now talk about their attitude towards religion. Being a Roman Catholic I follow quite closely the ups
and downs in their relationship with the Vatican and I find it quite fascinating. The Jesuits, when they went to
China in the Ming dynasty, hoped that they could convert the Emperor, and all of China would become Catholic
and a great mission would have been achieved. They never succeeded. Some of the brightest minds from
Europe went there. Matteo Ricci, he corrected the Chinese calendar, he repaired the clocks in the palace, he saw
the throne, but he never got to meet the Emperor and he died in China. And his tomb, it's in the compound of
the Beijing Party School today. And the church which he founded is still there today. 'Li Matou', that's what he
called himself, he applied for permission to be buried in China and he was given that permission. Then when
the Manchus swept southwards, in 1644, the missionaries thought now they had a chance, "the Manchus will be
a bit more accomodating towards us, we will yet Christianise China". So if you read the despatches of the
missionaries during that period, the Tartar Wars they described it, they were full of hope. But not a chance.
They appealed to the Second Emperor, Kangxi.
"Can we send more missionaries?" "No problem". "Can we have them all report to a papal legate in Beijing"
"No such thing". The Emperor imposed one condition: "you can send as many priests as you want to China but
they must die in China, they cannot leave after that". You see, instinctively, the Chinese, when they see the
Catholic Church, they see someone like themselves, someone whose claim to its members is total. And for
whom that loyalty is a jealous one.
Mind you they do not try to control everything; they just control the big things, dogma, doctrine. After that you
are left on your own and you are financially independent, but on the big issue of who appoints ministers and
provincial secretaries, it's the same as the Pope appointing Bishops and Bishops ordaining Priests and governing
this vast empire, whether we're talking about the Chinese empire or the Catholic empire. They have about the
same number of members in the world which is why their interaction is a complex and difficult one. And over
the appointment of Bishops, both seek ultimate authority. In the end they have got to find a way to resolve it. I
can anticipate the Vatican's argument that "we are not of this realm, we are of the other realm, so please we are
not in conflict". As for the Chinese leaders, their attitude towards religion from the earliest days is to keep
religion at arm's length. Those who govern the empire, they are areligious, they can have private religions, but
in matters of their public conduct, they are Confucianist. In public, you are not a Catholic, you are not a
Muslim, you are not a Buddhist. When the Jesuits went to China, they were very impressed by this - that it was
possible to create a moral order based not on religion but on ethics. So impressed, that they wrote about it, and
influenced people like Voltaire and the other Encyclopedists. It helped inspire the Frence revolution- that you
could get rid of the Church, and still maintain a moral order in society.
I've talked about China and law, China and democracy, China and religion, now let me talk about China and
foreign policy which is perhaps your greatest interest; about which I can only talk about generally because you
are the experts in this field. I think it's very difficult for the Chinese to break from their old mindset that they are
[Zhong Guo], the Middle Kingdom, they are at the center of the Universe, then there are the other 'chopsticks
peoples' who are semi-Sinic. I think they consider Singapore to be semi-Sinic. Then there are those who are
beyond that realm, who are what the Greeks would have called Barbarians. The Mongols, the Manchus, the
Europeans, the Americans, the Indians and so on.
Now all that jargon of course is not in use today. They are very civilised, they will welcome you with great
hospitality - lavish dinners, very courteous words, offering you the best of everything in the house. It reminded
me of the way my mother used to teach us at home, we were a big family and the stranger has got to be treated
well, the visitor has to be treated well, because you are afraid of the visitor. So you always treat visitors better
than your own family members because the visitor is capricious, he can harm you so make sure you fit him in.
Those who are within your authority, you can always maintain order anyway. This is the way, in their minds,
the universe is ordered. So I can understand why the Koreans, the Japanese, the Vietnamese, to some extent, the
Singaporeans, they feel uncomfortable about what they see as a repetition of a pattern they have seen many
times before in the past. Will the Chinese change this principle of foreign policy, I think they have, because,
never in their history have they met, have they existed in close contact with competing centers of power, with
the US, with Europe, India, and you are no longer separated by oceans which cannot be crossed, mountains
which cannot be crossed, now they are connected. So they are making adjustments.
It will be interesting to watch how they handle their Olympics; if the Olympics become an exercise of pure
Chinese nationalism, I think the international reaction against China will be very severe. But I think the Chinese
will be sophisticated. I expect they will organise cheer teams for the Americans, for the Japanese, so that there
is an appearance of courtesy and common humanity. They are very careful to ensure that their words fit
conditions today.
But let me say in their defence that many of these methods they use arise out of fear, not out of a desire to
dominate. If you analyse the old tributary system, those who sent tributes got more than they gave in return. It
became a racket. So the Japanese merchants competed to get tokens from [Ryukyu] in order to be able to do the
China trade because it meant a lot of money. The Chinese are fearful of foreigners. They are fearful of the
Russians to the north, the Muslims to the West, the Indians across the Himalayas, but mostly the Americans
across the Pacific. Their strategy is to keep the temperature low, low profile, hide the shine of your armour, the
shine of your sword, just play the game and concentrate on economic development. Internally will they make
preparations? I have no doubt, because they have a deep fear. Is their intention to dominate, to conquer, the way
the European powers did in the past? I don't think so. I don't think there is a great desire to turn non-Chinese
into Chinese. Maybe Korea, maybe Vietnam, maybe Mongolia, who at various points in time were part of their
greater empire, they might consider worth civilising. But beyond that, Sinicising Indians, Russians? No, I don't
think they will want to do that. So as they now become stronger and more powerful, I believe that while their
old nature will re-assert itself, they will also be reacting to us. If they find the world a threatening place, they
will develop their own responses to those threats.
Quite early in the day, they wanted to neutralise Southeast Asia, Asean. It had never been an area which
threatened them, historically. So they didn't worry about Southeast Asia as a threat. But resources, sea lanes,
they go through Southeast Asia. And they made a dramatic move a few years ago. Zhu Rongji was here for the
ASEAN-China summit. He said, "free trade agreement". At that time when he announced it, the leaders of
ASEAN almost fell off their chairs. We thought of China an economic threat to us. Not as a partner. Took us
almost a year to digest the implications and to say yes, let's negotiate. Step by step. And all the time China was
assuring us that we would benefit more than they would benefit. When the Framework Agreement was signed
by Zhu Rongji in 2002 in Phonm Penh, he made two remarkable statements. He said if after 10 years, the
agreement benefits China more than it benefits Southeast Asia, let us renegotiate it. I can never imagine the
American USTR, or the European Trade Commissioner, talking like that. I mean in a contract, a deal is a deal,
it's settled for eternity. Then he said: "China does not seek for itself an exclusive position in Southeast Asia", so
he acknowledged that we were not just going to date one girl, we intended to be promiscuous from the
beginning. Towards Northeast Asia, I think it is very complicated, because there is so much history and legacy.
Towards Central Asia, towards Russia, they have deep fears. Towards America, it has become a relationship
bound together at so many points, a rupture would become more and more unthinkable. But it is going to be a
very difficult relationship, it will be the most important and most difficult relationship to manage in this
century. If it's badly managed there will be war, if it's properly managed there will be another generation of
peace and hundreds of millions of people in the world would be raised out of the depths of poverty. In this area,
you are the experts, but whenever I see China and watch its moves, I go back to its deep nature because it's not
easy for a country so vast, with such a sense of itself, to depart too much from its deep nature. Thank you.
George Yeo
On Mon, Apr 27, 2009 at 5:57 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemai1.com> wrote:
Michele,
I look forward to getting together to discuss a number of issues. Thanks for following up w Jackie Newmyer.
Her email:
All the best, Hillary
Jacqueline Newmyer
President, Long Term Strategy Group
12 Eliot St., Cambridge, MA 02138
617-661-1626 (fax)
www.ltstrategy.com
 --- 

See comments on AMS document I left on you chair today.
Jim and torn F comments in email below.
Cdm
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Reminders: Marianne at 8pm.
Neera confirmed, she will get there at 8:15.
20
 --- 

Carolyn Maloney called for you.
And Nita Lowey also wants to talk tonite about the Middle East.
You can reach both through ops.
21
 --- 

See below, monica did confirm. I don't know what the confusion could have been. I'm very sorry. Marianne is saying she
can late tonite (around 10) or tomorrow at 8pm.
 --- 

Isabelle tomorrow at 7am.
Briefing book and binder from rich will be delivered very soon.
3
2014-20439 Doc No. C05762854 Date: 06/30/2015
 --- 

Pat and I are looking at this will check in am B5
 --- 

Fyi below
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Wednesday, April 29, 2009 3:18 AM
Fw: Major Economies Forum
 --- 

Fyi
Mills, Cheryl
Wednesday,
H
Fw: Meeting
D <MiflsCD@state.gov>
April 29, 2009 3:44 AM
tomorrow
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Per your strobe request regarding a june meet with board
 --- 

7:50 am DEPART Private Residence *En route State Department
8:00 am ARRIVE State Department
8:00 am FOOD SECURITY BREAKFAST w/MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
9:15 am Thomas Jefferson Room, 8th Floor
9:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
9:30 am Secretary's Office
9:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
9:40 am Secretary's Office
9:40 am PRE-BRIEF FOR THE WEEKLY MEETING w/THE PRESIDENT
9:55 am Secretary's Office
10:00 am OFFICE TIME
12:00 pm Secretary's Office
12:00 pm SWEARING-IN CEREMONY FOR KARL EIKENBERRY,
12:20 pm U.S. AMBASSADOR TO AFGHANISTAN Benjamin Franldin Room, 8th Floor
1:00 pm SPEECH PREP MEETING
2:00 pm Secretary's Office
2:15 pm DROP-BY w/JOSETTE SHEERAN, ED UN WORLD FOOD PROGRAM
2:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room
2:30 pm DROP-BY w/MICHELE KWAN, PUBLIC DIPLOMACY ENVOY
2:45 pm Secretary's Office *Official photo at top.
3:00 pm LONG TERM SCHEDULING MEETING
32
4:00 pm Secretary's Office
4:00 pm MEETING w/AFL-CIO PRESIDENT JOHN SWEENEY
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm HEARING PREP MEETING
6:30 pm Secretary's Office
6:35 pm DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
###
 --- 

Jiloty, Lauren C <JilotyLC@state.gov>
Wednesday, April 29, 2009 10:31 PM
H; Abedin, Huma
Reminder that tmw (thursday) is
###
birthday.
34 -
 --- 

35
 --- 

Denis had not told me he told him - more later Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T
B6
 --- 

Great job @ hearing----like the 3 D's. There is tepid support for the.afghan policy bcause of issues I raised. -- boxer
lowey and me want to do more for women- but. Developement is. Thee issue in any part of world----AID needs
rebuilding and recapitalizing-- any thing you want me to be doing with. Leahy?? Where are we on a. Director????
#. #. Health. Care. HELP. Comm is moving @ beakneck speed to have bill.by. June one.
Miss having you. But wow. 74'k miles. 22 counties. That's quite a listening tour
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
38
 --- 

Gentlemen, for your information below.
Werner
GFC
To whom it may concern from experience speaking!
RSO Niall,
Please be aware and as you have requested my elaboration in written format. As briefly
discussed in the meeting today, the LGF operate at what I would consider the "Threshold'
Sleep Deprivation. Further meaning, that our work schedule, hours and sleeping pattern'
the LGF very close to the edge of serious sleep deprivation. When we have to work go.,
,
time or ramp up extra manpower (during scheduled off days) due to increased threw .
etc...etc...; we further compound the issue of sleep deprivation. This ultimately dirninit,:
LGF's ability to provide security.
To better explain, here is where it starts, the LGF work 3 days then transition (swing shift) into .
nights then transition into 3 days off (it used to be 2x2x2). Each work day equals 14 actin I I!(-)
of work; Supervisor's can average up to 15 hours per work day.
Snap shot of an average day for a shift:
1. 05:00hrs every day, Shift Brief for on-going shift, along with "In-Service Training". .I
Convoy Brief, followed by convoy load time and organization for entire shift (approx i
during the day) followed by actual convoy movement.
2. 05:45 to 06:15hrs. (approximately) you have the shift change over on site,
3. 06:15 to 17:45, regular work day on site.
4. 17:45 to 18:15, Shift change over, followed by reorganization of convoy for off-going. slii
then actual convoy movement
5. 18:30 (approximately) Off-going shift returns to Camp Sullivan, weapons and equipment are
down loaded and convoy equipment is stowed, vehicle's re-staged in parking lot.
6. 19:00 (approximately) Off-going shift is complete, all equipment is accounted for and
secured, they are then on personnel time whether to work out and train, eat dinner, watch
movie, internet, phone calls, sleep or etc.
7. 10 hours later, it starts all over with a 05:00hrs Shift Brief not taking into considers tit
wake-up and grooming and breakfast.
This averages an actual 14 hour day for each LGF member. Some days can be as short a,
hours and some days as long as 14.5 hours. Supervisor's can average an additional
(approximate) 30 minutes prior to and after a shift conducting administrative duties and or ,;1
organization. All personal hygiene, laundry, personal e-mail/matters, Physical fitness, usually
meals and sleep must be conducted within the 10 hour window between an individual's shifts.
After completing the 3 days in a work cycle which ends at 19:00hrs, the shifts swings into
night shift schedule. Their next duty starts at 17:00hrs the following day for the evening
briefmg. This is a 22 hour transition window which most LGF only sleep once and are
again with the same 14 hour schedule for their first night shift. This can be viewed as gea i
one good sleep in for a 36 hours window of time (by the end of their first night shift, fol
two more night shifts).
When finishing their last night shift, they are immediately off, however, do to working ah
(arriving back at Camp Sullivan around 06:30) they sleep most of the first day off. They the
have to adjust back into a night-time sleeping pattern. The second day off is a designated
training day. Third day is a scheduled off day.
If you average this work schedule out over the course of a month, an LGF member transitio',
from a day to night sleeping pattern on average of 7 times. It's nearly impossible to establish
rhythmic sleeping pattern. This is what causes the sleep deprivation. You can see its efftiek
over the course of time. When a shift gets back on ground after an R&R, they are fresh and rt,
of energy, as compared to a shift that is been in the grind for 7 or 8 weeks and sometint,:..
after 5 and 6 weeks.
In summary, a disruption or addition to the current work schedule further compounds t1.
sleep deprivation and is not sustainable by the LGF for extended periods of time.
Respectfully, Werner The
Guard Force Commander US Embassy, Kabul Afghanistan
ArmorGroup North America
Tel: (+93) 0777715903 (+93) 0799715903
ilicstate.gov or
 --- 

