Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, June 1, 2009 1:14 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: Blair
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 05/22/2030 --- 
Good. Also pls be sure Ellen Tauscher knows I asked Jim Jones last week to call Kerry about her hearing and call Sarah
Farnsworth to see if Jones did it yet. --- 
On another matter, did you get all the stuff I sent in to be distributed, including the twitter article? --- 
Who wrote this? --- 
Can we push more donations? I'd like to put more #s on board both thru cell and on-line. --- 
Can we be sure that press knows we supported lifting suspension w conditions which is what we got. --- 
CNN just said that the suspension was revoked and no comment from Washington yet. So we need to tell the story
w/out flourish. --- 
Well, Philippe looks right again. CNN is reporting this as being done against my wishes. Any way to salvage? --- 
The Jill Dougherty report was much better than the lead in so maybe there is a chance. --- 
Ok. --- 
Thx. Also, I tried Doug twice but it went right to voice mail. --- 
Are youy on a falucca? Here's my # if they want to call. B6 --- 
Can I greet her while she's here? --- 
Thank you--and pis be sure o see them. --- 
Also I will not leave the office before 5:30. --- 
Can you try to find out? Maybe they don't want to be associated w big cities? I had a lot of support from the Conf and
the mayors so I hope that's not it. --- 
Let's discuss at our next mtg. --- 
Thanks for the running commentary. I hope the stars are aligned despite the Baucus-Kennedy tensions. So pis keep the
info flowing.
B6
I will not be in DC June 20 for the BIG 10 year milestone, but congrats to you and All the best, H B6 --- 
I'm trying to call him thru ops but haven't reacherd him yet. --- 
Joan makes good points. Let's hold on doing anything until we all talk. --- 
Megan Rooney)
Are you ok w it? Can we claim more leadership for you, me and State? --- 
Thx. Ops is trying to reach him. I spoke w Condi. --- 
Condi Rice called to tell me I was on strong ground saying what I did about there being no agreement btw the Bush
Admin and Israel. I will give you details tomorrow. --- 
I heard on the radio that there is a Cabinet mtg this am. Is there? Can I go? If not, who are we sending? --- 
Find out if either Jack Lew or Pat Kennedy wants to go. --- 
So set up the time. --- 
Can you send to him or do you want me to? Does he know I can't look at it all day so he needs to contact me thru you or
Huma or Lauren during work hours. --- 
Pls print.
Original Messar --- 
Fyi. --- 
Have you reached Mark yet? I'd be happy to see him as he requested for a drop by. --- 
Rick--
I would love to participate on behalf of my "brother"! I'm copying my assistant, Lauren, and asking her to coordinate
this for us. Hope you're holding up during these challenging times. All the best, H --- 
Can you check and see if I sent a letter to him this week? Thx. --- 
Ok. --- 
I want to see him tuesday when he's back. --- 
Also after my mtg we want to see the potus later tuesday or wednesday. --- 
 --- 
Rob--pis type this out in BIG print for me. Thx. --- 
Are you free for a quick dinner or lunch in the next week? --- 
I arrived for the 10:15 mtg and was told there was no mtg. Matt said they had "released" the time. This is the second
time this has happened. What's up??? --- 
got tickets to Crete and now can't switch. Can Paige help her? --- 
 --- 
I'm on the way home. --- 
Yes. --- 
[mailto
RELEASE IN PART
B6 --- 
That is s000 nice. They're both such good folks. --- 
Can you pls bring w you today two clean copies of the startegy memo you, Cheryl, Sandy and Derek worked on so I could
talk w you about today and plan a conf call to discuss tomorrow. Thx.
Also, Tom Donilon told me there would be a dinner Thursday night w Kissinger, Scocroft, Zakaria, Brezinski and principals
and that he wouldn't me to frame and lead off. So we have to get the ducks lined up. --- 
I respect her reasoning altho I regret her sense of responsibility. --- 
Is that going public? Is it posted on our website? --- 
Will you check what the Canadians told us about the bridge being open and, if true, be sure Schumer and Gillibrand are
told. --- 
Ok --- 
Anything elser I need to know? --- 
Why did they call you? --- 
Pls pull for me the speeches I and/or Bill gave about health care to any doctor group in the 90s. --- 
Did you see the article by him attributed to the NYTimes Magazine. Did it run in the paper version? --- 
Also, pls add Dan Kurtzer to call list. --- 
Here.are some odds and ends--
I'd like you to meet w me in person or over the phone before the Monday and Thurs mtgs w Asst Secs to set an agenda
of what I want raised
I just heard of something called the "Hillary Center" in Morocco. Can you run that to ground?
I talked w Walter Isaacson about his Palestinian project. Toni Verstandig runs it; pls call her to ask for the materials
which she told me she had prepared during the transition. --- 
Pis contact Judith Barnett who has lots of ideas about partnering w business about the Middle East. Do you know her? --- 
I saw it and think it's right on point. I will call and thank Dan.
Where are we on No Ireland?
I think we should also be prepared to enlist someone to respond to John Bolton's attacks.
Also, Holbrooke wants me to call Sashkavilli. Has that 6een vetted in Building? --- 
Ok --- 
Either she or Huma does. --- 
Jim--Who have you designated to run the Resolution enforcement team out of State? --- 
 --- 
I have a time sensitive matter to discuss re Guantanamo detainees and Bermuda. --- 
Judith—in btw our mtgs, I'll email you questions or suggestions mostly so I don't forget them!
Have you met w Doug Hattaway? I think he's very good.
A former Amb has a media project that I need to discuss w you.
I loved seeing all of your "boys"!
1 --- 
Good. What is latest re Sid Blumenthal? --- 
Be sure I do a video conf w Chris hill in next few weeks. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, June 25, 2009 3:53 PM
Re: So sorry!
David--
Thank you for your too kind words which were a greatly welcome addition to my healing and rehab. My word of advice
is to watch where you step and stay grounded!
It's an honor to serve the President w you and I'd enjoy spending some one-on-one time just comparing notes and
catching up in the next weeks. All the best, Hillary --- 
Do you know anything about this? --- 
Would you pls give Lanny a report and do you know who is keeping Solomon informed? --- 
Probably for this season, but I'll be ready next spring! Until then, I'll keep my day job. --- 
Any news from Shannon or Maria? --- 
That's fine to go. --- 
Can we leave closer to 8:30? Tomorrow changes ok altho I did tell WH I couldn't do at 5!! --- 
I can do at 2. --- 
Ok to set up call. What's his first name? --- 
Pls be sure Tom Shannon sees the memcon of call. Am I meeting you at the airport? --- 
See Youi here. --- 
Thx. Can we talk tonight? --- 
How's it playing? --- 
Ok --- 
 --- 
What does Jim say? Tom Shannon? Dan Restrepo? --- 
 --- 
Thx. --- 
Wendy--
Thanks for your good wishes. I am finally on the mend and starting physical therapy. One word of advice--watch where
you step!
I was very excited by the announced merger w Sandy's firm which sounds like a win-win for all.
I miss seeing you and hope we can remedy that soon. Happy 4th! --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, June 30, 2009 5:59 PM
'bam@mikulski.senate.gov'
Re: Sorry to hear
Barb--Thanks, my dear friend, for your good wishes.
Let's try again for dinner soon. Happy 4th!! All the best, Hillary --- 
I will probably have to see them and Zelaya tomorrow. We should coordinate w Tom. --- 
 --- 
I 96 --- 
Fyi --- 
Fyi --- 
Fyi --- 
 --- 
I did --- 
fyi --- 
FYI --- 
 --- 
 --- 
FYI --- 
Author of Renegade is Richard Wolfe (wrote for Newsweek) --- 
FYI
• --- 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office of the Spokesman
For Immediate Release June 2, 2009
2009/
Question Taken at June 1, 2009 Daily Press Briefing
Current results of Texting Campaign for Humanitarian Aid to Pakistan
Q. How much money has been raised through the texting campaign for humanitarian aid for
Pakistan?
A. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported that as of June 1, 2009, a total of
$135,008 in private donations from U.S. sources for humanitarian aid to Pakistan had been
received. Of that total, $31,390 was received via 5,722 text messages.
The remainder included $84,702 received via 439 online donations; and $18,916 by mail and from
major donors.
# # # --- 
 --- 
 --- 
FYI --- 
Fyi
Worked out relations with david and dick and todd.
See WI re working out of space.
David has turned in all paprwork too so shoyld be on board relatively soon.
Cdm --- 
Fyi --- 
Fyi --- 
Update from pir:
Pis tell HRC he changed his lede graf to read:
"SAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras — Thirty-four members of the Organization of American States gathered here Tuesday to
argue over whether to readmit Cuba. By evening, an isolated United States was still struggling to fend off a vote to lift
the ban on Havana."
Much better, word "failed" doesn't appear
6 --- 
 --- 
* Miguel: "Andrew did great this afternoon. FYI, Lowey delivered HRC's statement. Very well received."
* Richard Fontaine: "Andrew is not even rocking - just tapping his foot. Did y'all train him for.this or something?? And
half the room are Shapiros, it's like his friggin Bahr Mitzvah."
* Former NSC staffer Michael Allen: "Shapiro son removed from the room, screaming bloody murder in the hallway."
* Mike Feldman: "Jon Lovett removed from the room, screaming bloody murder in the hallway."
* Laurie Rubiner: "Jim Webb arrives, looks typically angry."
* Derek Chollet: "Shapiro comes out strong against piracy. Bold stand."
* Jon Lovett: "Jeanne Shaheen listening very closely. Barbara Boxer is distracted. The other anonymous old men on dais
seem confused and unsure where they are."
Hearing concludes at 3:33:43 PM EDT
2014-20439 Doc No. C05761605 Date: 06/30/2015 --- 
I'm usually the pessimist, but I'm not sure this is as dire as it seems in the moment from 10,000 miles away.
First, the world/media is fixated on the President's speech, the imagery from Riyadh dominates, there's no Honduras
footage of interest, which is key. Speech tomorrow will blanket coverage and extinguish the Cuba stuff, so we just need
to weather the night.
Second, Tom & Dan did an on the record conf call not long ago and we think they did very well. Dan was especially
strong, and he's also speaking to people 1:1
Third, your statement was strong and the reporting will catch up with it, it's only been out 90 minutes.
Fourth, we are suffering from two significant tactical problems: 1) you are here and removed 2) our press corps was out
of position today and in flight, so the people we worked on all week and the ones likely to skew our way were replaced
by reporters not connected to us.
The two issues above will be rectified tomorrow in your two interviews - especially Greta who is malleable. We can use
that to make a strong case on the principle, and the simple fact Cuba wasn't in the OAS yesterday, and won't be
tomorrow. Everyday that passes reinforces that point. The time difference to East Coast will help us in moving
whatever is said in these interviews tomorrow.
Short term, we started the week showing we can engage with Cuba (mail, migration), and ending it showing we are
serious about our redlines
Long term, we stood up for human rights and that can only be a plus. --- 
Yes, That's the plan. --- 
 --- 
If u r still up, wjc landed in brazil for refuel. He should be on the ground for an hour or so. Call dougs cell.
„
2014-20439 Doc No. C05761619 Date: 06/30/2015 --- 
I do. --- 
Went on a falucca ride and are now at the bar/restaurant downstairs. --- 
Yes, I will arrange. --- 
Barack Obama may support insurance mandate
By CARRIE BUDOFF BROWN I 6/3/09 3:42 PM EDT
Updated: 6/3/09 11:22 PM EDT
As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama scoffed at Hillary Rodham Clinton's proposal to require people to
buy health insurance.
"(If) they can't afford it, they just don't get it," Obama said during the primary, arguing that a mandate would
not work unless insurance costs were lowered first.
For the first time, Obama confirmed Wednesday that he plans to stake out a different position as president.
In a letter to two leading Democratic senators, Obama said he could support a mandate on individuals to buy
coverage, as long as Congress exempted those who could not afford it. This marks a shift from his stance during
the campaign, when he tussled repeatedly with Clinton on the issue. She proposed an individual mandate, and
he did not.
"I share the goal of ending lapses and gaps in coverage that make us less healthy and drive up everyone's costs,
and I am open to your ideas on shared responsibility," Obama wrote. "But I believe if we are going to make
people responsible for owning health insurance, we must make health care affordable."
"If we do end up with a system where people are responsible for their own insurance, we need to provide a
hardship waiver to exempt Americans who cannot afford it," Obama wrote.
Detailing his positions on various health care proposals for the first time as president, Obama also said
Americans should be able to choose between public and private insurance plans in a reformed health care
system.
"I strongly believe that Americans should have the choice of a public health insurance option operating
alongside private plans," he wrote. "This will give them a better range of choices, make the health care market
more competitive, and keep insurance companies honest."
He offered qualified support for a mandate on employers to provide insurance or pay a fee to the government.
Employers "have a responsibility to support health insurance for their employees," Obama wrote, but small
businesses should be exempt.
Obama's positions on these issues were not entirely surprising, but his decision to weigh in before
congressional Democratic leaders released a single bill was unexpected. Prior to the letter, Obama and his aides
had declined to say specifically where he stood on various issues, including the public plan and individual
mandate, saying they wanted Congress to lead the way in writing a bill.
But Democrats have been anxious for the president to take a more public stance, and the letter provides the
guidance that many in Congress had been craving as House and Senate committees move closer to releasing
draft bills.
"The president says get it done. Get it done right because we only get one chance," said Sen. Barbara Mikulski
(D-Md.), a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. "The letter essentially
synthesizes what the president is saying."
He outlined the parameters in a letter to Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.).
Obama's endorsement of a public insurance option could boost the controversial proposal and serve as catalyst
for the Democratic base as the president kicks off a grassroots campaign Saturday.
"It's clear that the Republican resistance to a public plan hasn't softened President Obama's support for one,"
Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement. "This strengthens the hand of those of us advocating for a
public option, which is the only way to keep the private insurers' feet to the fire."
Despite almost uniform opposition from Republicans on the public plan, the president wrote in the letter that he
remains "hopeful that many Republicans" would back an overhaul bill.
Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, struck an optimistic tone in
a statement, saying the letter "doesn't draw lines in the sand," and "is helpful because of his statements that
reform legislation needs to have bipartisan support."
However, the letter is likely to incite opponents, who have been frustrated by Obama's lack of specifics.
Indeed, on Thursday morning, Conservatives for Patients' Rights will begin airing a new TV ad called
"Bulldozer," which says a "government-run plan" will drive private insurers out of business and eliminate
consumer choices.
Back to top
Read more: "Barack Obama may support insurance mandate - Carrie Budoff Brown - POLITICO.com" -
http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0609/23298.html#ixzz0HQhr4KMx&A --- 
Because of the time difference, your clips were prepared at midnight Eastern Time so many are still early versions. But
what we're seeing online right now look MUCH better this morning than even 5 hours ago - it just took a bit for your
statement, our conf call, our pushback, and our travelers to catch up. Many including the Times take a very different
tone. And all note Cuba's not in. Mostly, stories are small and seem buried. --- 
fyi --- 
FYI --- 
 --- 
 --- 
FYI --- 
FYI --- 
FYI
CQ TODAY ONLINE NEWS — APPROPRIATIONS
June 4, 2009 — 1:39 p.m.
War Supplemental Conference Slips to Next Week
By Josh Rogin, CQ Staff
House leadership has decided not to hold a conference or a vote on the war supplemental spending bill this
week, as leaders worked behind the scenes to secure enough Democratic votes to pass the measure absent GOP
support.
Multiple lawmakers and aides confirmed the expected Thursday session to finalize negotiations over the bill
(HR 2346), which is mainly to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, will not occur until at least early next
week. Democratic leaders were trying to convince as many as 18 of the 51 Democrats who voted against the
House version in May to change their votes, but many said they would not do so.
Republicans are promising to vote against the conference report en mass if it includes $5 billion worth of
funding related to the International Monetary Fund. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said Thursday it
would.
"I believe there are people in the Republican Party who support [the IMF funding]; they just don't want to
support it on this bill," Pelosi said Thursday, "So we have to do that with all Democratic votes."
She also pushed back against two key pillars of the House Republican leadership's argument against the IMF
funding, which is meant to accommodate an increased U.S. credit extension to the organization.
Responding to statements of Minority Leader John A. Boehner of Ohio that the IMF money is unrelated to the
war spending measure, Pelosi said the IMF help was a "national security initiative" because it helps to alleviate
sources of instability, such as poverty.
Pelosi also accused House Minority Whip Eric Cantor, R-Va., of fear mongering by putting out a statement
warning that IMF assistance could somehow fund terrorism.
"I don't know why anyone would say that the money is going to the hands of terrorists," she said. "It simply is
not based in fact and is a scare tactic, and most unfortunate."
House Democratic aides said the conference on the supplemental bill probably would be early next week.
"We're going to come up with a supplemental conference report in the next few days," said Senate Majority
leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.
6
Whipping Votes
House leaders had planned to hold the conference session Thursday and had said the House floor vote could be
as early as Friday. But their effort to convince members to switch their no votes was still underway Thursday
afternoon. •
Although several high ranking Democrats have pledged to switch their no votes, including Reps. Barney Frank,
D-Mass., and George Miller, D-Calif., many others have said they would not.
"It's a conscience vote," said Rep. Alan Grayson, D-Fla., who said he was inclined to not change his stance on
the bill
"I haven't cracked yet," said Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass., who along with other anti-war Democrats has
pledged to be against any war funding that does not provide for the withdrawal of troops from southwest Asia.
Still, many Democrats said that the leadership was lobbying them relatively intensely.
More Details Emerge
Meanwhile, more details of the near finalized supplemental conference report negotiations came out Thursday.
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Daniel K. Inouye, D-Hawaii, said that the final bill will "in all
likelihood" include money for 5 C-130 transport planes and 8 C-17 cargo planes, none of which was requested
by the administration or in the Senate's bill. The House bill had sought 11 C-130s and the 8 C-17s.
Overall, the defense portion of the bill is expected to be about $4 billion less than the House version but still
billions above the Senate version and the administration request, House Appropriations Defense subcommittee
chairman John P. Murtha, D-Pa., said.
As for the fate of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the conference report likely will include language
barring the administration from transferring prisoners to U.S. soil for the remainder of the fiscal year, said
House Appropriator James P. Moran, D-Va.
No money towards the president's effort to close the prisons will be in the conference report, Moran added. The
president had requested $80 million but neither the House nor Senate versions included those funds.
John M Donnelly and Katherine Hunter contributed to this story
Source: CQ Today Online News
Round-the-clock coverage of news from Capitol Hill.
© 2009 Congressional Quarterly Inc. All Rights Reserved.
7 --- 
fyi
c --- 
Below is current draft of the press release we would issue once DOJ issues their release:
REVISED DRAFT
06/05/09-0715
14 --- 
11:40 am (t) ARRIVE State Department
12:00 pm BILATERAL w/PORTUGUESE FOREIGN MINISTER LUIS AMADO
12:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
12:30 pm PROTOCOL OF EXCHANGE OF INSTRUMENTS OF RATIFICATION
12:45 pm CEREMONY w/PORTUGUESE F.M. LUIS AMADO Treaty Room
12:45 pm OFFICE TIME
1:30 pm Secretary's Office
1:30 pm BILATERAL w/TURIUSH F.M. AHMET DAVUTOGLU
2:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
2:30 pm PRESS AVAIL Iv/TURKISH F.M. DAVUTOGLU
2:40 pm Treaty Room
2:45 pm BILATERAL w/KOREAN F.M. YU MYUNG-HWAN
3:15 pm Deputy Secretary's Conference Room *Camera Spray in Treaty Room following.
3:15 pm MEETING w/TODD STERN
4:00 pm Secretary's Office
4:00 pm MEETING w/ARTURO VALENZUELA, NOMINEE FOR ASST.
4:15 pm SEC'Y OF STATE FOR WESTERN HEMISPHERE AFFAIRS Secretary's Office
4:30 pm (t) DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
4:40 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
4:40 pm PERSONAL TIME
5:30 pm Private Residence
5:30 pm DEPART Private Residence *En route Rodham Home
6:00 pm 90TH BIRTHDAY BBQ FOR MRS. RODHAM
10:00 pm (t) Location: Home of Tony & Megan Rodham *Call Time: 6:00pm-10:00pm
10:00 pm (t) DEPART Rodham Home *En route Private Residence
10:30 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
###
16 --- 
Just FYI that Betsy and Tom are coming to State today for a tour of the Diplomatic Reception Rooms. (Betsy may have
her boss in tow, too). Marcee Craighill is going to give them a private tour at 2:00 PM, and afterward I will show them
whatever I can on the 7th floor.
Lauren Jiloty
Special Assistant to
Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton
17 --- 
Mortgage rates drop to record lows. $200,000 for $1,029/mo Fixed. LendingTree® --- 
Revised mini schedule below. Two items added during office time, denoted with asterisks:
11:40 am (t) ARRIVE State Department
12:00 pm BILATERAL w/PORTUGUESE FOREIGN MINISTER LUIS AMADO
12:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
12:30 pm PROTOCOL OF EXCHANGE OF INSTRUMENTS OF RATIFICATION
12:45 pm CEREMONY w/PORTUGUESE F.M. LUIS AMADO Treaty Room
12:45 pm OFFICE TIME
1:05 pm Secretary's Office
1:10 pm * MTG w/ JACK LEW AND JAKE SULLIVAN *
1:20 pm Secretary's Office
1:20 pm * PRE-BRIEF FOR TURKISH BILATERAL *
1:25 pm Secretary's Office
1:30 pm BILATERAL w/TURKISH F.M. AHMET DAVUTOGLU
2:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
2:30 pm PRESS AVAIL w/TURKISH F.M. DAVUTOGLU
2:40 pm Treaty Room
2:45 pm BILATERAL w/KOREAN F.M. YU MYUNG-H WAN
3:15 pm Deputy Secretary's Conference Room *Camera Spray in Treaty Room following.
3:15 pm MEETING w/TODD STERN
4:00 pm Secretary's Office
4:00 pm MEETING w/ARTURO VALENZUELA, NOMINEE FOR ASST.
4:15 pm SECY OF STATE FOR WESTERN HEMISPHERE AFFAIRS Secretary's Office
4:30 pm (t) DEPARTState Department *En route Private Residence
4:40 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
4:40 pm PERSONAL TIME
5:30 pm Private Residence
5:30 pm DEPART Private Residence *En route Rodham Home
6:00 pm 90"
1 BIRTHDAY BBQ FOR MRS. RODHAM
10:00 pm (t) Location: Home of Tony & Megan Rodham *Call Time: 6:00pm-10:00pm
10:00 pm (t) DEPART Rodham Home *En route Private Residence
10:30 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
###
19 --- 
Okay good to know, we have a couple informal call requests that we could get through during that time. --- 
Alan Johnson is named Home Secretary. He was considered the only possible alternative to Gordon,
a bland, competent, Blairite, consensus choice. Johnson taking Home Secretary in effect puts an end
to the coup attempt. Alistair Darling is kept as Chancellor. Ed Balls, Gordon's close adviser, was
considered a bridge too far given Gordon's weakness now. But with Purnell's resignation Gordon
named Balls' wife, Yvette Cooper to Purnell's job at Work and Pensions Ministry. More later... Sid
Mortgage rates drop to record lows. $200,000 for $1,029/mo Fixed. LendingTree@ --- 
So in the end Peter did not get Foreign Secretary. But Gordon has now created a new job and title for
him: First Secretary of State. In effect, he is deputy prime minister, probably the first peer in that role,
not an elected member of Commons. Gordon held a defiant late afternoon press conference: "I will
not waver. I will not walk away. I will get on with the job." There will be more fallout, but I think this is
done. Sid
Mortgage rates drop to record lows. $200,000 for $1,029/mo Fixed. LendingTree® --- 
FYI --- 
Sorry to flood your email, but I couldn't resist sending this to you from Ben Smith
A year later, Hillary wins
A year ago today, the final set of primaries made official the foregone conclusion that Barack Obama had won
the primary, and Hillary Clinton lost it.
There's far too much going on today to dwell on an anniversary, but it does seem worth noting one particular
piece of news in its light: On the central health care policy debate of the Democratic Primary -- which was, to
be fair, conducted within a fairly narrow frame -- Obama appears to have conceded today to a Senate plan likely
to more closely resemble Clinton's.
In a dense, careful letter to Ted Kennedy and Max Baucus, Obama offered his principles for a health care plan
and conceded on a central point: He is now open to an individual mandate, which he campaigned against, and
which is now being talked about by Senators of both parties with the buzzword "shared responsibility."
Obama still backs a "hardship waiver" for people unable to afford the mandate -- which is consistent with the
core of his objection to the mandate. But what he cast as a principled difference of approach -- was the problem
merely that people couldn't afford insurance? or something more? -- seems to have been conceded.
Here's the relevant paragraph:
I understand the Committees are moving towards a principle of shared responsibility -- making
every American responsible for having health insurance coverage, and asking that employers
share in the cost. I share the goal of ending lapses and gaps in coverage that make us less healthy
and drive up everyone's costs, and I am open to your ideas on shared responsibility. But I believe
if we are going to make people responsible for owning health insurance, we must make health
care affordable. If we do end up with a system where people are responsible for their own
insurance, we need to provide a hardship waiver to exempt Americans who cannot afford it. In
addition, while I believe that employers have a responsibility to support health insurance for their
employees, small businesses face a number of special challenges in affording health benefits and
should be exempted.
B6
B6
By Ben Smith 07:51 PM --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Friday, June 05, 2009 4:52 PM
H; Doug Band
Justin Cooper
FW: Many Haitians See Bill Clinton Appointment as Setting Up Protectorate
For HRC/WJC --- 
Importance: High
See below --- 
Fyi --- 
Purnell called Miliband to tell him he would resign, trying to prompt David into joining him, thereby
bringing down the government. Miliband refused, tried to talk Purnell out of quitting. Mande[son was
at No. 10 discussing strategy with Gordon when Purnell called at 10 pm Thursday night to tell him he
resigned. Mandelson worked the phones long into the night to get the Blairites to stay put and back
Gordon. He succeeded in holding the fort. Then Gordon named him First Secretary of State. Sid
What can an email address say about you? Find out here. --- 
Fyi --- 
Holbrooke called for you. He's in abu dhabi.
Jim steinberg also just called for you. --- 
Rooney)
June 6,2009 11:30am
Rooney (x7-7203,
CONCEPT NOTE FOR WORLD FOOD PRIZE CEREMONY
Thursday, June 11, 2009
This speech is an opportunity to signal the urgency of the problem of global hunger; connect it to an array of
global issues, including economic development, health and education, expanding opportunity for women, and
political stability; and declare the Administration's commitment to tackling hunger at its roots, through effective
and efficient collaboration with an array of partners.
Additionally, your remarks can point to a shift from past approaches by emphasizing the need to support local
solutions and focus on long-term sustainability to help people feed themselves and reduce the need for
emergency assistance down the road.
The speech could be framed as follows:
THE PRIZE AND PRIZE-WINNER
You can begin by announcing the winner of the 2009 World Food Prize, Dr. Gebisa Ejeta. He has a remarkable
story: born in a mud hut in Ethiopia, he got his PhD from Purdue University in plant breeding and genetics and
developed strains of sorghum that are drought-tolerant, high-yield, and resistant to the Striga weed, which
devastates crops across Africa.
Outside the lab, he helped start the Sudanese commercial seed industry; developed systems to produce, certify,
and market hybrid seeds; and educated farmers about the use of fertilizers and soil and water conservation. And
he has trained and inspired the next generation of African agricultural scientists.
A COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH: FROM LAB TO FARM TO MARKET TO TABLE
Dr. Ejeta's work reflects the breadth of this issue and the comprehensive approach needed to address it—one
that connects the labs where new seed technologies are developed.., the fields where small-scale farmers labor
to feed their families and make a living.., the markets where food is bought and sold... and the homes where
people get the nourishment they need to thrive.
In many places, that food chain is broken. One billion people worldwide woke up hungry this morning and will
go to sleep hungry tonight. Chronic hunger threatens health, while making it harder for people to work and
students to learn, which in turn stunts economic development. Last year's food riots demonstrated that when
food is scarce, political stability is threatened.
44
To date, the world's primary response to hunger has been to send emergency food aid. While this saves lives, it
is a short-term fix, and we need a long-term solution.
The Obama Administration is committed to leading in developing a new global approach. We will support the
creation of sustainable agricultural systems in appropriate regions around the world, to increase agricultural
productivity, create jobs, strengthen economies, and protect natural resources.
We will do this not by imposing one-size-fits-all solutions, but by assisting countries in carrying out individual
strategies that meet their needs—for example, through the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development
Plan. To facilitate coordination and share best practices, we will seek to convene donor governments,
multilateral institutions, NG0s, private companies, foundations, universities, and individuals.
THE ANCHORS OF OUR APPROACH
We've identified seven anchors that secure sustainable agriculture systems. These will guide our approach.
• Increase agricultural productivity by expanding access to quality seeds, fertilizer, irrigation, the credit to
purchase them, and the training to use them.
• Stimulate the post-harvest sector by improving the storage and processing of food and improving
transportation to connect small farmers to markets.
• Maintain natural resources so the land can be farmed well into the future and we can make the right
adaptations for the changing environment.
• Expand knowledge and training by support R&D and developing the next generation of agriculture
scientists.
• Increase trade so small-scale farmers in developing countries can sell their crops far and wide.
• Support policy reform and good governance, because sustainable agriculture flourishes in a clear and
predictable policy and regulatory environment.
• Support women and families in agriculture. Seventy percent of the world's farmers are women, but
most of the programs that offer credit and training to farmers target men. This must change for
agriculture to thrive. And children must have nutrition to contribute to their communities' future.
A PREVIEW OF WHAT'S TO COME
In the coming weeks, President Obama, Secretary Vilsack and I will be reaching out to share our approach to
global coordination and agriculture in greater detail. We will seek the input, wisdom and guidance of those who
have been working so long in this arena—from the Congress to NGOs to academics to foundations to the
private sector. The President's conversations at the G-8 meeting in Italy in two weeks will address our
approach, as well as my trip to Africa in August.
Addressing hunger and food is essential to achieving economic recovery, stabilizing societies, and expanding
opportunity for hundreds of millions of people worldwide. This is why supporting sustainable agriculture
worldwide will be a central element of foreign policy in the Obama Administration.
CONCLUSION
You can circle back to the story of Dr. Ejeta to close. He represents the need for a multinational
approach: born in Ethiopia, educated in the United States, advised by Indian scientists, advisor to several
African nations.
45
June 6,2009 11:30
Rooney (x7-7203,
CONCEPT NOTE FOR WORLD FOOD PRIZE CEREMONY
Thursday, June 11, 2009
This speech is an opportunity to signal the urgency of the problem of global hunger; connect it to
an array of global issues, including economic development, health and education, expanding
opportunity for women, and political stability; and declare the Administration's commitment to
tackling hunger at its roots, through effective and efficient collaboration with an array of
partners.
Additionally, your remarks can point to a shift from past approaches by emphasizing the need to
support local solutions and focus on long-term sustainability to help people feed themselves and
reduce the need for emergency assistance down the road.
The speech could be framed as follows:
THE PRIZE AND PRIZE-WINNER
You can begin by announcing the winner of the 2009 World Food Prize, Dr. Gebisa Ejeta. He
has a remarkable story: born in a mud hut in Ethiopia, he got his PhD from Purdue University in
plant breeding and genetics and developed strains of sorghum that are drought-tolerant, high-
yield, and resistant to the Striga weed, which devastates crops across Africa.
Outside the lab, he helped start the Sudanese commercial seed industry; developed systems to
produce, certify, and market hybrid seeds; and educated farmers about the use of fertilizers and
soil and water conservation. And he has trained and inspired the next generation of African
agricultural scientists.
A COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH: FROM LAB TO FARM TO MARKET TO TABLE
Dr. Ejeta's work reflects the breadth of this issue and the comprehensive approach needed to
address it—one that connects the labs where new seed technologies are developed.., the fields
where small-scale farmers labor to feed their families and make a living.., the markets where
food is bought and sold... and the homes where people get the nourishment they need to thrive.
In many places, that food chain is broken. One billion people worldwide woke up hungry this
morning and will go to sleep hungry tonight. Chronic hunger threatens health, while making it
harder for people to work and students to learn, which in turn stunts economic development.
Last year's food riots demonstrated that when food is scarce, political stability is threatened.
To date, the world's primary response to hunger has been to send emergency food aid. While
this saves lives, it is a short-term fix, and we need a long-term solution.
The Obama Administration is committed to leading in developing a new global approach. We
will support the creation of sustainable agricultural systems in appropriate regions around the
world, to increase agricultural productivity, create jobs, strengthen economies, and protect
natural resources.
We will do this not by imposing one-size-fits-all solutions, but by assisting countries in carrying
out individual strategies that meet their needs—for example, through the Comprehensive Africa
Agriculture Development Plan. To facilitate coordination and share best practices, we will seek
to convene donor governments, multilateral institutions, NG0s, private companies, foundations,
universities, and individuals.
THE ANCHORS OF OUR APPROACH
We've identified seven anchors that secure sustainable agriculture systems. These will guide our
approach.
• Increase agricultural productivity by expanding access to quality seeds, fertilizer,
irrigation, the credit to purchase them, and the training to use them.
• Stimulate the post-harvest sector by improving the storage and processing of food and
improving transportation to connect small farmers to markets.
• Maintain natural resources so the land can be farmed well into the future and we can
make the right adaptations for the changing environment.
• Expand knowledge and training by support R&D and developing the next generation of
agriculture scientists.
• Increase trade so small-scale farmers in developing countries can sell their crops far and
wide.
• Support policy reform and good governance, because sustainable agriculture flourishes in
a clear and predictable policy and regulatory environment.
• Support women and families in agriculture. Seventy percent of the world's farmers are
women, but most of the programs that offer credit and training to farmers target men.
This must change for agriculture to thrive. And children must have nutrition to
contribute to their communities' future.
A PREVIEW OF WHAT'S TO COME
In the coming weeks, President Obama, Secretary Vilsack and I will be reaching out to share our
approach to global coordination and agriculture in greater detail. We will seek the input, wisdom
and guidance of those who have been working so long in this arena—from the Congress to
NGOs to academics to foundations to the private sector. The President's conversations at the G-
8 meeting in Italy in two weeks will address our approach, as well as my trip to Africa in August.
Addressing hunger and food is essential to achieving economic recovery, stabilizing societies,
and expanding opportunity for hundreds of millions of people worldwide. This is why
supporting sustainable agriculture worldwide will be a central element of foreign policy in the
Obama Administration.
CONCLUSION
You can circle back to the story of Dr. Ejeta to close. He represents the need for a multinational
approach: born in Ethiopia, educated in the United States, advised by Indian scientists, advisor
to several African nations.
June 6, 2009 11:30am
Rooney (x7-7203,
CONCEPT NOTE FOR WORLD FOOD PRIZE CEREMONY
Thursday, June 11, 2009
This speech is an opportunity to signal the urgency of the problem of global hunger; connect it to
an array of global issues, including economic development, health and education, expanding
opportunity for women, and political stability; and declare the Administration's commitment to
tackling hunger at its roots, through effective and efficient collaboration with an array of
partners.
Additionally, your remarks can point to a shift from past approaches by emphasizing the need to
support local solutions and focus on long-term sustainability to help people feed themselves and
reduce the need for emergency assistance down the road.
The speech could be framed as follows:
THE PRIZE AND PRIZE-WINNER
You can begin by announcing the winner of the 2009 World Food Prize, Dr. Gebisa Ejeta. He
has a remarkable story: born in a mud hut in Ethiopia, he got his PhD from Purdue University in
plant breeding and genetics and developed strains of sorghum that are drought-tolerant, high-
yield, and resistant to the Striga weed, which devastates crops across Africa.
Outside the lab, he helped start the Sudanese commercial seed industry; developed systems to
produce, certify, and market hybrid seeds; and educated farmers about the use of fertilizers and
soil and water conservation. And he has trained and inspired the next generation of African
agricultural scientists.
A COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH: FROM LAB TO FARM TO MARKET TO TABLE
Dr. Ej eta's work reflects the breadth of this issue and the comprehensive approach needed to
address it—one that connects the labs where new seed technologies are developed.., the fields
where small-scale farmers labor to feed their families and make a living.., the markets where
food is bought and sold... and the homes where people get the nourishment they need to thrive.
In many places, that food chain is broken. One billion people worldwide woke up hungry this
morning and will go to sleep hungry tonight. Chronic hunger threatens health, while making it
harder for people to work and students to learn, which in turn stunts economic development.
Last year's food riots demonstrated that when food is scarce, political stability is threatened.
To date, the world's primary response to hunger has been to send emergency food aid. While
this saves lives, it is a short-term fix, and we need a long-term solution.
The Obama Administration is committed to leading in developing a new global approach. We
will support the creation of sustainable agricultural systems in appropriate regions around the
world, to increase agricultural productivity, create jobs, strengthen economies, and protect
natural resources.
We will do this not by imposing one-size-fits-all solutions, but by assisting countries in carrying
out individual strategies that meet their needs—for example, through the Comprehensive Africa
Agriculture Development Plan. To facilitate coordination and share best practices, we will seek
to convene donor governments, multilateral institutions, NG0s, private companies, foundations,
universities, and individuals.
THE ANCHORS OF OUR APPROACH
We've identified seven anchors that secure sustainable agriculture systems. These will guide our
approach.
• Increase agricultural productivity by expanding access to quality seeds, fertilizer,
irrigation, the credit to purchase them, and the training to use them.
• Stimulate the post-harvest sector by improving the storage and processing of food and
improving transportation to connect small farmers to markets.
• Maintain natural resources so the land can be farmed well into the future and we can
make the right adaptations for the changing environment.
• Expand knowledge and training by support R&D and developing the next generation of
agriculture scientists.
• Increase trade so small-scale farmers in developing countries can sell their crops far and
wide.
• Support policy reform and good governance, because sustainable agriculture flourishes in
a clear and predictable policy and regulatory environment.
• Support women and families in agriculture. Seventy percent of the world's farmers are
women, but most of the programs that offer credit and training to farmers target men.
This must change for agriculture to thrive. And children must have nutrition to
contribute to their communities' future.
A PREVIEW OF WHAT'S TO COME
In the coming weeks, President Obama, Secretary Vilsack and I will be reaching out to share our
approach to global coordination and agriculture in greater detail. We will seek the input, wisdom
and guidance of those who have been working so long in this arena—from the Congress to
NGOs to academics to foundations to the private sector. The President's conversations at the G-
8 meeting in Italy in two weeks will address our approach, as well as my trip to Africa in August.
Addressing hunger and food is essential to achieving economic recovery, stabilizing societies,
and expanding opportunity for hundreds of millions of people worldwide. This is why
supporting sustainable agriculture worldwide will be a central element of foreign policy in the
Obama Administration.
CONCLUSION
You can circle back to the story of Dr. Ejeta to close. He represents the need for a multinational
approach: born in Ethiopia, educated in the United States, advised by Indian scientists, advisor
to several African nations. --- 
He can talk to you tomorrow, just wants to talk to before u do anything public.
He has a call with susan rice at 530, after that but I told him u may be out of pocket for the evening. --- 
On Michael Savage:
Joan wanted everyone to clearly understand before any further discussion occurred with UK that Savage's exclusion
could also have occurred under our legal regime so to the extent we want to suggest to UK that his exclusion on free
speech grounds is inappropriate (or any thing of that like) that we should understand we may appear slightly hypocritical
given our legal regime and actions.
Background on Related Law
B5
B5
B5 --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, June 06, 2009 4:15 PM
H
info.doc
Just FYI given where you are leaning — I put her resume at the bottom in text in case you want to see on your bb.
cdm --- 
See below.
cdm --- 
Condi rice checked in during party. She can talk tomorrow between 830 and 1045
F-2014-20439 Doc No. C05761898 Date: 06/30/2015 --- 
Jeff reports that the exit polls in Lebanon are encouraging. It looks as though March 14 are winning. --- 
Asking to talk to you secure
Hoping to do it soon.
You can call ops from your white phone in office or grey phone on 3rd and they can go secure. --- 
 --- 
This should have been faxed to house. Here is final schedule:
8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
Participants: Jim Steinberg, Jack Lew, Pat Kennedy, P.J. Crowley, Dan Smith, Cheryl Mills, Joan Donoghue,
Anne-Marie Slaughter, Ian Kelly, Rich Verma and Joe Macmanus
9:15 am MONDAY MEETING w/ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:00 am OFFICE TIME
11:00 am Secretary's Office
11:00 am MEETING w/ARTURO VALENZUELA, NOMINEE FOR A/S WESTERN HEMISPHERE AFFAIRS
11:40 am DEPART State Department
En route Sewall-Belmont House and Museum
11:50 am ARRIVE Sewall-Belmont House and Museum
11:55 am 2009 ALICE AWARD PRESENTATION
Note: 100 people attending the reception, 250 attending the luncheon. Reception called from 11:00am-12:00pm,
Luncheon from 12:00pm-1:30pm.
Upon arrival, Page Harrington escorts HRC to the tented Garden Terrace, as guests are sitting for the luncheon.
HRC sits at the head table.
At 12:00pm, Peggy Cifrino, Sewall-Belmont House and Museum event chair, delivers welcoming remarks and
introduces Audrey Sheppard, Chair, Board of Directors, Sewall-Belmont House and Museum.
Audrey Sheppard delivers brief remarks and announces HRC as the receipent of the 2009 Annual Alice Award.
HRC proceeds to stage to accept award.
HRC gives brief remarks and departs, luncheon program continues.
12:35 pm DEPART Sewall-Belmont House
12:45 pm ARRIVE State Department
12:45 pm OFFICE TIME
1:40 pm Secretary's Office
1:40 pm PRIVATE MEETING with BAMBI
2:00 pm PHOTO w/VISITING MIDDLE EAST DEMOCRACY ACTIVISTS
2:15 pm MEETING w/MEMBERS OF U.S. COMMISSION ON
INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
CAMERA SPRAY (at the top of the meeting)
Members of U.S. Commission and Staff
Donald Argue, Commissioner
Felice Gaer, Chair
Dwight Bashir, Associate Director
Elizabeth Cassidy, Associate Director
Michael Cromartie, Vice Chair
Talal Youssef Eid, Commissioner
Judith Golub, Director of Government Relations
Richard Land, Jr., Commissioner Leonard Leo, Commissioner
Elizabeth Prod romou, Vice Chair
Nina Shea, Commissioner
James Standish, Executive Director
3:00 pm BILATERAL w/INDONESIAN FOREIGN MINISTER NOER
HASSAN WIRAJUDA
Secretary's Conference Room
OFFICIAL PHOTO (in East Hall preceding bilateral)
3:30 pm JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/INDONESIAN FOREIGN MINISTER NOER HASSAN WIRAJUDA
3:45 pm OFFICE TIME
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
F-2014-20439 Doc No. C05761905 Date: 06/30/2015 --- 
Labour finishes third behind the far right UK Independence Party. Labour percent just below 16. Sid
A Good Credit Score is 700 or Above. See yours in just 2 easy steps! --- 
Heads up --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, June 08, 2009 5:21 AM
Fw: 1 page trip report from china, korea, and rome
China.Korea.Rome Trip Report6.7.09.docx
See AMS trip summary WI --- 
It is actually not a full cabinet meeting today -- those agencies that received recovery money were invited to
attend/participate. We were welcome to send a representative though, not sure if we have anyone going. --- 
Will do. --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Pat Kennedy will be attending. --- 
Will take care of it. --- 
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am MONDAY MEETING w/ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:00 am Principals Conference Room 7516
10:00 am OFFICE TIME
11:00 am Secretary's Office
11:00 am MTG w/ARTURO VALENZUELA, NOMINEE FOR A/S WESTERN
11:30 am HEMISPHERE AFFAIRS Secretary's Office
11:40 am DEPART State Department *En route Sewall-Belmont House and Museum
11:50 am ARRIVE Sewall-Belmont House and Museum
11:55 am 2009 ALICE AWARD PRESENTATION
12:30 pm Sewall-Belmont House and Museum
12:35 pm DEPART Sewall-Belmont House *En route State Department
12:45 pm ARRIVE State Department
12:45 pm OFFICE TIME
1:40 pm Secretary's Office
1:40 pm PRIVATE MTG w/ HAMBY ARELLANO
2:00 pm Secretary's Office *Personnel mtg.
2:00 pm PHOTO w/VISITING MIDDLE EAST DEMOCRACY ACTIVISTS
2:10 pm Treaty Room
2:15 pm MEETING w/MEMBERS OF U.S. COMMISSION ON
2:45 pm INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
Deputy Secretary's Conference Room *Camera spray at top.
3:00 pm BILATERAL w/INDONESIAN F.M. NOER HASSAN
3:30 pm WIRAJUDA Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
3:30 pm JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/INDONESIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
3:40 pm NOER HASSAN WIRAJUDA Treaty Room
3:45 pm OFFICE TIME
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:30pm MEETING WITH ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER
4:50pm Secretary's Office
4:50pm OFFICE TIME
6:00pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
'
-2014-20439 Doc No. C05762203 Date: 06/30/2015 --- 
The Parliamentary Labour Party meeting is just Over. Gordon has survived. The event, held in private,
was high drama and anticlimax at once. The chair asked for rebels to come forward and speak. Only
one prominent person emerged, Charles Clarke, former Home Secretary and Blairite; the rest were a
handful of about a half-dozen backbenchers. Their remarks about how Brown was bringing the party
down were poorly received. The party, after all, was in no mood for breaking ranks and rewarding
disloyalty. With this paltry showing, the opposition petered out, at least for now. Gordon then gave a
speech, strong on analysis, discussing that his government was paying the price for getting the
country through a difficult recession, suffering from the worst parliamentary crisis since Lloyd George
and still had a program to offer. He also make the point that when the party had split int he past it was
over ideology or policy and there were no stated differences presented by the opposition. So for now,
Gordon has won. Sid
An Excellent Credit Score is 750. See Yours in Just 2 Easy Steps! --- 
21 --- 
Cheryl Mills <
Monday, June 8, 2009 10:00 PM
H
B6
B6
HRC:
Gave your email to David Axe;
We are notifying 9/11 families in am on prisoner transfer;
B5
Spoke to
cdm
ho wants to talk about other opportunities at State – see below: --- 
Thoughts?
Will call you around 720 am --- 
Fyi --- 
7:45 am ARRIVE The Vice President's Residence
7:45 am WEEKLY BREAKFAST w/VICE PRESIDENT BlDEN
8:30 am The Vice President's Residence
8:30 am DEPART The Vice President's Residence *En route State Department
8:40 am ARRIVE State Department
8:40 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
9:30 am Secretary's Office
9:30 am CALL TIME
10:00 am Secretary's Office *5 Members: McGovern, Donald Payne, Sam Farr, Niki Tsongas and
Doris Matsui.
10:00am OFFICE TIME
10:30am Secretary's Office
10:30 am MEETING w/ERIC GOOSBY, NOMINEE FOR GLOBAL AIDS
11:00 am COORDINATOR Secretary's Office
11:00 am BILATERAL w/MONGOLIAN FOREIGN MINISTER SUICHBAATAR
11:30 am BATBOLD Secretary's Conference Room *Camera Spray w/ welcome remarks in
Treaty Room preceding.
12:10 pm DEPART State Department *En route White House
12:15 pm ARRIVE White House
12:15 pm ONE-ON-ONE LUNCH w/LARRY SUMMERS, DIRECTOR NATIONAL
1:15 pm ECONOMIC COUNCIL White House Mess
1:20 pm DEPART White House *En route State Department
1:25 pm ARRIVE State Department
1:30 pm OFFICE TIME
2:30 pm Secretary's Office
2:30 pm PRIVATE MEETING w/MIICE FROMAN, NSC
3:00 pm Secretary's Office
3:00 pm OFFICE TIME
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm PC PRE-BRIEF MEETING
5:00 pm Secretary's Office
5:10 pm DEPART State Department *En route White House
5:15 pm ARRIVE White House
5:15 pm WEEKLY PC MEETING
6:30 pm White House Situation Room
6:35 pm DEPART White House *En route State Department
6:40 pm ARRIVE State Department
29
6:45 pm OFFICE TIME
7:00 pm Secretary's Office
7:00 pm (t) CHILDREN UNITING NATIONS RECEPTION (T)
7:15 pm Ben Franklin Room *Approx. 250 ppl expected.
7:20 pm DEPART State Department *En route Hunan on the Hill
7:30 pm ARRIVE Hunan on the Hill
7:30 pm ONE-ON-ONE DINNER w/SENATOR CHARLES SCHUMER
8:30 pm Hunan on the Hill, 215 Pennsylvania Avenue, SE
8:30 pm DEPART Hunan on the Hill *En route Private Residence
8:45 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
FYI:
6:15 pm PC MEETING
7:00 pm White House Situation Room
###
30 --- 
Just arrived in Montreal. Will get back to you. What age/level of experience do you have in mind re assistant. Happy to
work with Che I or Jake on that one.
dogs much enjoyed encounter yesterday. You were great on tv. --- 
 --- 
Choose the home loan that saves you the most $$$. Agents available at ditech.com --- 
 --- 
Gordon Brown called me today to convey his very best to you, etc, etc, taking the phone from Shaun,
in the office they now work in together, right after Shaun briefed me that he and Gordon will be
meeting with Martin McGuiness together on Wednesday and may want your help with Adams. I said
that he and Gordon should let me know before Wednesday whether your involvement is essential and
what they request. That is fine with them and Shaun will get back to me. Sid
Refinance and lower payments online with Ditech. Visit wwvv.ditech.com Today! --- 
David miliband called and asking to talk in next few hours. Says topic for call is Iran in run-up to meeting of EU Foreign
Ministers. I'm getting points from jake/dennis/phil.
Also, I set up conf call for you, cheryl and jake for 6:45pm so u can do en route airport. Ok?
I came to dc earlier and am taking my mom to airport right now. Worked out seating with usss so you are set. Tomorrow
coming at 7:30 with --- 
You will be getting a fax shortly of a very rough draft of the big speech. There are still many holes, and placeholders, in it.
Hopefully it's enough to spur some of your own thinking. --- 
You should call into ops when u get in car. They will patch you into Jake and cheryl. I told them 6:45pm.
88 --- 
Strobe Talbott
Sunday, June 14, 2009 8:00 PM
RE: Questions
B6
Thanks, Hillary. I'm attaching the CV of and have also sent it to Jake. I'd have loved to attend the B6
India lunch, but I've got a long-standing working lunch with the "Managing Global Insecurity" project at Brookings that
Carlos Pascual set up and has been leading. Tom Pickering, Tim Wirth, Chet Crocker, Esther Brimmer, and various other
such will be there, and I can't pull out (my office had passed this word to yours). I'm so pleased you're going to India. It
was your trip to the region, with Chelsea, in 95 that established the momentum for Bill's. I'll always remember you talk
(with slide show) at State after you returned. I'll send you tomorrow my book "Engaging India" now thatyou're re-
engaging them. Hard work ahead of on non-pro, as you know. Hope to see you before long. I'm taking to Italy B6
and Turkey for two weeks next Saturday. Warmest regards, Strobe --- 
RELEASE IN PART
B6
Thanks Strobe -- just saw your email. I know and Cheryl and I will follow up.
Sent from my BlackBerry® smartphone with SprintSpeed --- 
94 --- 
 --- 
B6
My random stuff can wait till the morning:
- talked to who is back to really wanting an ambassadorship
- mark weiner wants to have a party for capricia, told him we'd love it but after the confirmation and we can do
something nice on 8th floor
Vuants to come see u privately this week. He wants to talk to you about iran before he sees biden at a
fundraiser when he's in dc this week. --- 
-2014-20439 Doc No. C05762334 Date: 06/30/2015 --- 
98 --- 
Importance: High
FYI --- 
fvi --- 
Fyi
alal•••••¦•••¦•¦•¦•
¦
•1* --- 
 --- 
Just wanted to be sure you saw the Kurtzer op-ed, which ran Sunday in the Post. Kudos to Jonathan Prince for
getting this written and placed.
The Settlements Facts •
By Daniel Kurtzer
Sunday, June 14, 2009
Faulty analysis of the Israeli settlement issue is being passed off as fact. Charles Krauthanuner's June 5 column,
"The Settlements Myth," is one example.
Here are the facts: In 2003, the Israeli government accepted, with some reservations, the "road map" for peace,
which imposed two requirements on Israel regarding settlements: "GO! [Government of Israel] immediately
dismantles settlement outposts erected since March 2001. Consistent with the Mitchell Report, GOI freezes all
settlement activity (including natural growth of settlements)."
Today, Israel maintains that three events -- namely, draft understandings discussed in 2003 between Prime
Minister Ariel Sharon and U.S. deputy national security adviser Stephen Hadley; President George W. Bush's
April 14, 2004, letter to Sharon; and an April 14 letter from Sharon adviser Dov Weissglas to national security
adviser Condoleezza Rice -- constitute a formal understanding in which the United States accepted continuing
Israeli building within the "construction line" of settlements. The problem is that there was no such
understanding.
The first event the Israelis cite is the 2003 discussions on a four-part draft that included the notion that
construction within settlements might be permitted if confined to the already built-up areas of the settlements.
The idea was to draw a line around the outer perimeter of built-up areas in settlements and to allow building
only inside that line. This draft was never codified, and no effort was made then to define the line around the
built-up areas of settlements. Nonetheless, Israel began to act largely in accordance with its own reading of
these provisions, probably believing that U.S. silence conferred assent.
Second, President Bush's 2004 letter conveyed U.S. support of an agreed outcome of negotiations in which
Israel would retain "existing major Israeli population centers" in the West Bank "on the basis of mutually
agreed changes. . . ." One of the key provisions of this letter was that U.S. support for Israel's retaining some
settlements was predicated on there being an "agreed outcome" of negotiations. Despite Israel's contention that
this letter allowed it to continue building in the large settlement blocs of Ariel, Maale Adumim and Gush
Etzion, the letter did not convey any U.S. support for or understanding of Israeli settlement activities in these or
other areas in the run-up to a peace agreement.
In his 2004 letter to Rice, Weissglas addressed the issue of the "construction line," saying that "within the
agreed principles of settlement activities, an effort will be made in the next few days to have a better definition
of the construction line of settlements in Judea & Samaria." However, there never were any "agreed principles
of settlement activities." Moreover, the effort to define the "construction line" was never consummated: Israel
and the United States discussed briefly but did not reach agreement on the definition of the construction line of
settlements. Weissglas's letter also promised "continuous action" to remove all the unauthorized outposts, but
Israel removed almost none of them.
Throughout this period, the Bush administration did not regularly protest Israel's continuing settlement activity.
But this is very different from arguing that the United States agreed with it. In recent days, former senior Bush
administration officials have told journalists on background that no understandings existed with Israel regarding
continued settlement activity.
Commentators also focus on the Obama administration's reiteration that a freeze must include the "natural
growth" of settlements. Krauthammer says that this "means strangling to death the thriving towns close to the
1949 armistice line. . . It means no increase in population. Which means no babies." This is nonsense. No one
suggests that Israelis stop having babies. Rather, the blessing of a new baby does not translate into a right to
build more apartments or houses in settlements. The two issues have nothing to do with each other. Israelis, like
Americans, move all the time when life circumstances -- children, jobs, housing availability -- change.
The pattern of population growth in the territories actually undercuts the natural-growth argument. Since 1993,
when Israel signed the Oslo Accords, Israel's West Bank settler population has grown from 116,300 to 289,600.
The numbers in East Jerusalem increased from 152,800 to more than 186,000. This goes far beyond the natural
increase of families already living in the settlements. Inserting the provision of "natural growth" in official
documents started with the 2001 Mitchell Report and the 2003 "road map," reflecting recognition that the
concept was being abused as a justification for expanding settlements. The Obama administration is pursuing
policies that every administration since 1967 has articulated -- that settlements jeopardize the possibility of
achieving peace and thus settlement activity should stop. This does not diminish the Palestinians'
responsibilities, especially their commitment to stop violence and terrorism and uproot terrorist infrastructure.
President Obama emphasized this in his Cairo speech. But Palestinian failures in no" way justify Israeli failure to
implement their road map commitments with respect to settlements and outposts. It is time for Israel to freeze
all settlement activity and dismantle the unauthorized outposts.
The writer, US. ambassador to Israel from 2001 to 2005, is a visiting professor of Middle East policy studies at
Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Tuesday, June 16, 2009 7:07 AM
FW: Late night call with Michele Pierre Louis
FYI below
1.4(D)
B1
cdm --- 
Ok --- 
I saw the piece yesterday and had stuck in yours today. But they should have identified it as NY Magazine, Not NY Times
Magazine
I think he's an online guy, will check
Good piece though. Accompanied by a great photo of you and the President outside the mosque --- 
120 --- 
Yep ill look it up --- 
I do not know her but I will call her. Does Lauren have her info? --- 
Will do --- 
Roger on all counts. --- 
I've suggested to jake that it be either of pending their onward assignments and asked hi$ to
run this by you and cheryl --- 
All State nominees were voice voted out of Committee without debate this afternoon.
They included:
E. Tauscher
A.Shapiro
K. Campbell
E. Goosby
B.Jenkins
E. Schwartz --- 
I am working on gathering these. --- 
I have this queued and ready on my desktop whenever you would like to see it. It's a video that is approximately 4
minutes in length. --- 
FYI --- 
I'm droppoing off briefing book for tomorrow
And latest draft of India speech.
There's a note from dennis ross. B6
128 --- 
calling you now --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Tuesday, June 16, 2009 11:08 PM
Fw: Remarks by President Obama and Prime Minister Berlusconi in press availability,
6/15/09
See below - just spoke to denis. Calling
B6 --- 
Fyi --- 
147 --- 
Jiloty, Lauren C <JilotyLC@state.gov>
Wednesday, June 17, 2009 7:56 AM
Abedin, Hume
Mini Schedule 6/17/09 --- 
Delivery has failed to these recipients or distribution lists:
mhcaleja@state.gov
The recipient's e-mail address was not found in the recipient's e-mail system. Microsoft Exchange will not try to redeliver
this message for you. Please check the e-mail address and try resending this message, or provide the following diagnostic
text to your system administrator.
Diagnostic information for administrators:
Generating server: MSWASHDCIB01.washdc.state.sbu
mhcaleja@state.gov
It< #5.1.1> #SMTP#
Original message headers:
Received: from vance3.state.gov ([10.4.16.249]) by
MSWASHDCIB01.washdc.state.sbu with Microsoft SMTPSVC(6.0 3790.,
3499); Wed, 17
Jun 2009 07:42:02 -0400
Received: from mail.clintonemail.com (ool-18bbeabb.static optonline.net [24.187.234.187])
by vance3.state.gov with ESMTP id n5HBbJhD004449
for <mhcaleja@state.gov›; Wed, 17 Jun 2009 07:37:19 -0400
Received: from CLNTINET08.clinton.local (ife80::d0bb:23d3:f75e:49931) by
CLNTINET08.rlinton.local ([fe80::d0bb:23d3-:175e:4993%10]) with mapi; Wed, 17
Jun 2009 07:42:01 -0400 --- 
Yes -- Sarah' email from Monday: General Jones will host a Small Group Meeting in the Situation Room, Wednesday
(6/17), from 10:15-11:15am. Please confirm participation as shown below. If you have any questions, please contact
the Suite at (202) 456-9491. Thank you, Adam --- 
FYI --- 
FYI --- 
 --- 
FYI, Gary Sick's latest analysis on Iran below (posted on his blog). Sick has independent sources and
is very well informed.
June 17, 2009
Is this another Iranian revolution?
To someone who has watched and studied the Iranian revolution of 1979 with fascination, developments
in Iran today have an eerie reminiscence. Then there were massive protests that filled the streets, often
marching in dignified but ominous silence; there was bloodshed as nervous security men with guns faced
determined but unarmed crowds; there were sullen mourning parades;20there were catchy chants and
ritual calls of "Down with the shah!"; at night the rooftops rang with shouts of allahu akbar.
You need only change "shah" to "dictator," and you have a description of what is happening in Iran
today.
But there is one very big difference. Thirty years ago, Iran had a charismatic cleric named Ayatollah
Khomeini who had a refined sense of strategy and a willingness to risk everything for the cause he
represented. On the other side was Mohammed Reza Shah, who had been on the throne for some 37
years and who commanded one of the most powerful military and security regimes in the world. On the
surface it appeared to be an uneven battle — guns against turbans — but the ruler with the guns wavered
and the turbans grew in size and confidence until the old order collapsed.
Today the nominal leader of the opposition forces is a reformed radical, Mir Hossein Mousavi, who is
notably lacking in personal charisma. On the other side is the constitutional Leader, Ayatollah
IChamene' i, who is widely perceived as a cautious political animal with limited qualifications for his
religious post and who compensates for his own lack of charisma by manipulation of the political system
and the institutions most loyal to him — particularly the politically minded clergy and the powerful
security forces, including the Revolutionary Guards.
Neither of these men seems to be fully in control of their own forces, let alone the situation. The
fraudulent election defeat of Mousavi was a triggering event, but the energy behind these unprecedented
demonstrations is due more to the sense of outrage and betrayal at the gross manipulation of numbers by
the regime than it is about any undying devotion to Mousavi. Yesterday Mousavi ordered that people
stay home in face of a conflicting pro-regime demonstration. They marched anyway (and the daughter of
former president Rafsanjani joined them and urged them on). Mousavi then "ordered" everyone to
march the following day (which they were probably going to do with or without his orders).
IChamene'i announced the "divine assessment" of the election outcome — even before it would probably
have been physically possible to count the more than 40 million ballots. Then, in the face of mass protests,
he ordered an investigation of the results by the Guardian Council— the same organization that was
responsible for managing the election in the first place. No one believed him in either case, and no one
expected anything of importance from the Guardian Council. Khamene'i has ordered peace and
reconciliation. No one paid any attention.
I deliberately did not mention president-elect Ahmadinejad. After celebrating his "victory," he went off
to a largely symbolic meeting in Moscow. He seems to be out of the decision loop and more of a passive
player than a major actor in these events.
So who is calling the shots? Mousavi seems to be running along after the crowd, not leading it. But that is
probably all that is required to keep the protest in motion.
On the other side, the very little evidence we have suggests that the important decisions are being made
by the ultra-conservative leadership of the Revolutionary Guards, whose political role has ballooned over
the past decade, perhaps in cooperation with their extremist counterparts in the clergy. They are utterly
ruthless and ideologically fueled.
New York Times columnist Nick Kristoff reminded us several days ago (see blog item on June 15 below)
at the end of the day, as I saw at Tiananmen 20 years ago, when Might and Right do battle, it's often prudent
to bet on Might, at least in the short run.
The regime seems to have miscalculated badly. They seemed to believe that a sudden coup — the
announcement of dramatic election results followed by a show of force — would intimidate and silence the
opposition and consolidate their control. That is perhaps more understandable if the decisions were being
made by military leaders who tend to see the battle in Manichaean terms, rather than politicians such as
IChamene'i who are accustomed to seeing shades of gray. In any event, it b ackfired and they now have a
much larger crisis on their hands than if they had simply arranged for Ahmadinejad to win by a slim
margin (which was at least believable).
All parties are now in uncharted territory. A significant portion of the Iranian population seems to have
concluded that their social contract with the rulers — accepting Islamic rule in return for a respectful
regard for the opinion of the governed, an Islamic Republic — is no longer valid. They do not trust their
rulers.
The rulers, whose support has been declining for years in the face of their own inept management of the
country, are increasingly replacing popular support with repression. This election seems to have called
that tactic into question. For the military, the obvious answer is more repression. So it would appear to
be a moment to bet on Might.
But nobody is fully in command of events. Decisions taken in the next weeks will be fateful and could
determine the future path of the Iranian revolution.
There is another lesson as Iran's leaders contemplate a Tiananmen moment. When the Tiananmen
crackdown occurred almost exactly ten years ago, one of the leaders of China at the time was Zhao
Ziyang, General Secretary of the Communist Party. He was later fired and placed under house arrest.
His smuggled memoirs have just appeared, revealing the depth of disagreements within the lea dership
about how to proceed.
Is it possible that ten years from now we will have a volume describing the intense debates that one can
only presume are underway today in the highest councils of the Islamic Republic of Iran?
Dell Days of Deals! June 15-24 - A New Deal Everyday! --- 
Thursday, June 18, 2009
Day of Mourning, Protests, Called by Mousavi on Thursday
Mir-Hosain Mousavi, who maintains he won last Friday's presidential election despite official assertions that he
lost 2 to 1 to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is calling for another rally Thursday, this time in part to honor the
persons killed by hardliners or security forces in the course of previous demonstrations.
Mourning the martyr is as central to Iranian Shiite religious culture as it was to strains of medieval Catholicism
in Europe, and Mousavi's camp is tapping into a powerful set of images and myths here. The archetypal Shiite
martyr is Imam Husayn, the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad, who championed oppressed Muslims in Iraq
and was cut down by the then Umayyad Muslim Empire. Redognition that a Muslim state might commit the
ultimate in sacrilege by beheading a person who had been dangled on the Prophet's knee has imbued modern
political Shiism with a distrust of the state. When Husayn's head was brought to the Umayyad caliph Yazid and
deposited before his throne, older companions of the Prophet are said to have wept and remarked, "I saw the
Prophet's lips on those cheeks." Shiites ritually march, flagellate, and chant in honor of the martyred Imam or
divinely-appointed leader.
Today's protesters are wearing green, which symbolizes Mousavi's descent from the Prophet Muhammad.
(Mousavi's family name refers to the Seventh Imam (descendant of the Prophet with claims to divine
knowledge), Musa Kazim, whose tomb is in Kazimiya, north Baghdad. Sayyid families, those claiming descent
from the Prophet, often take one of the Imams' names as a family name to honor them, though of course they
are also claiming descent from the previous Imams right back to the Prophet.) The repertoires of protest the
reformists are using echo those of the 1978-79 Islamic Revolution-- they are chanting "God is Great," mourning
pious fallen martyrs, etc.-- another sign that this movement is not just alienated secularized elites.
But now Mousavi's his supporters are also sporting black ribbons to indicate that they are in mourning for the
fallen. Typically, the dead will be commemorated again at one month and at 40 days. In 1978 such
demonstrations for those killed in previous demonstrations grew in size all through the year, till they reached an
alleged million in the streets of Tehran. Since the reformists are already claiming Monday's rally was a million,
you wonder where things will go from here.
The regime's attempt to paint the protesters as nothing more than US intelligence agents underlines how wise
President Obama has been not to insert himself forcefully into the situation in Iran. The reformers and the hard
liners are not stable groupings. The core of each is competing for the allegiance of the general Iranian public. If
the reformers can convince most Iranians of the justice of their cause, they will swing behind the opposition. If
the hard liners can convince the public that the reformers are nothing more than cat's paws of a grasping,
imperialist West-- i.e. that they are Ahmad Chalabis trying to bring Iran foreign occupation so as to get power
themselves-- then the reformists will be crushed. Iranians value national independence above all, having
suffered with a CIA-installed goverment for decades in the mid-twentieth century.
The prescriptions of John McCain and Faux Cable news for muscular US diplomacy at this point are tone deaf
to Iranian realities and would backfire big time, harming both the reform cause and US interests. Anyway, after
the basket case to which the US Republican Party reduced Iraq, no one in the global South is likely to want
them meddling in their internal affairs.
Reports are streaming in of the arrest of over a hundred opposition figures and of hard line militia men
following protesters home and breaking into their homes to terrorize them. See e.g., Basij paramilitary forces
terrorize residential complex. The Basij militiamen are said to be afraid to come out in numbers during the
opposition demonstrations, but sneak around at night to trail protesters and harass or arrest them.
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei had met Tuesday morning with the representatives of all four presidential
candidates, urging them to make up but continuing to insist that Alunadinejad was the winner by 24 million to
14 million votes. He portrayed the massive post-election demonstrations and charges of ballot fraud as a minor
tiff.
Gary Sick wonders if Khamenei really is the supreme leader any more, and hints that the hard line tack of
stealing the election was directed by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, the country's religious national
guard.
Reports are coming in from Iran that allege that the regime is tracking down and destroying satellite dishes,
using helicopters for aerial surveillance of neighborhoods and Basij, the right wing militia (sort of like
Mussolini's Black Shirts) to do the breaking and entering. Kindly neighbors who have tried to warn suspected
satellite dish owners that the militiamen were coming have sometimes reportedly themselves been arrested.
Dell Days of Deals! June 15-24 - A New Deal Everyday! --- 
FYI --- 
Oops. When I wanted you to trip the light fantastic. I didn't mean that literally. Be careful. Do the therapy. Get well. Do
you still want us to come. Monday.
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
7 --- 
Fyi --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Thursday, June 18, 2009 9:35 PM
Fw: NYT
Fyi --- 
See below --- 
FYI below — we are working on Acting. --- 
See below
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.goy>
Friday, June 19, 2009 7:27 AM
FW: Stanford Law Connection - A GLIFA Thank you email
B6 --- 
FYI --- 
Yeah! --- 
Hope you are doing well after your surgery today. So sorry you have to deal with this. A couple items:
- Tom Donohue reports that he called Inouye today and he listened, asked O's but did not commit
- I don't want to get overconfident but we had a very good week on the Expo. Pepsi at $5M, Microsoft at $1M, Corning
at $500K (privately).
- Great mtg today at GE with about 20 corporations. 15 said they would look at it seriously. I think this has turned
around. Spoke to Ginsberg, Sosnik (NBA), Mantz and they are engaged.
Get well.
Kris --- 
Hillary, Is it true that Holbrooke tripped you? Just kidding. Get better fast, we need you running around. Good
being with you the other evening. cp --- 
 --- 
(U) Iranian media report a suicide bomber was killed and two others wounded near the mausoleum in southern
Tehran.
24 --- 
Story is out. Richard called again to talk to you about it. Statement is being drafted for your review. --- 
Fyi --- 
Abedin, Hume <AbedinH@state.gov>
Saturday, June 20, 2009 5:14 PM
Checking in
Hope u r ok. Need anything?
Holbrooke said he talked to david rohde if u want a dowload.
All else is quiet, hope you are getting rest and pls call or email if u need me to do anything. See you tomorrow.
•30 --- 
ebeigetu flork antes Just FYI. Palau UN Amb. Beck says you were friends in law school & thought you
recognized him when he came in w/Pres. Toribiong. Hope you're not in pain and mend
soon. Jeff
June 20, 2009
The Myth of the $12 Million Uighur
. By STUART BECK
CONGRATULATIONS Palau. Our little country, a group of islands 500 miles east of the Philippines, has become, if only
briefly, a household word. President Obama, much admired in Palau, asked our new president, Johnson Toribiong, to do
the United States a favor: Please accept, as refugees, a group of innocent Chinese Muslims. They are not anti-American
terrorists, but victims of human rights violations, who landed at Guantanamo Bay for seven years. Innocent, stateless,
harmless.
President Toribiong, a lawyer trained at the University of Washington and a highly regarded litigator, told President
Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton that he needed to assure his people that the Uighurs were indeed harmless,
and could be integrated into Palau's small, diverse and friendly culture. Assuming that this due diligence brought
satisfactory results, Palau would be pleased to give the refugees temporary residence. Last weekend, he dispatched a
number of officials to Guantanamo to interview the Uighurs and review their records.
One would have thought that this positive gesture of friendship from a staunch American ally would have been applauded,
at least in the United States. Instead, for reasons that are beyond me, unattributed leaks and unsubstantiated rumors have
twisted Palau's act of decency into another grab for dollars by a cunning third-world country. In breaking the story that
Palau was amenable to President Obama's request, the Associated Press reported that two anonymous State Department
officials had linked Palau's acceptance of the Uighurs to a $200 million payoff.
Almost immediately, much of the news media took the bait, did the math and asserted that Palau was getting nearly $12
million dollars per Uighur. Within a day or two, The Wall Street Journal was pontificating against a shakedown.
Before the story gets too far out of hand, let's consider a few facts. It is true that the United States and Palau have an
economic relationship. Palau has been receiving American aid since it was wrested from the Japanese in 1944. (Over the
past 15 years, this has averaged about $56 million a year.) This aid has come with strings; as the United States has always
insisted that the Palauan government be ready to promptly turn over land for bases should the security of the United
States or Palau require it.
B6
In 1994, the two countries agreed to a 50-year option that allows the United States to use Palau for military purposes. That
agreement's economic terms expire in October 2009, and a new economic package for the remaining 35 years is in the
works — and has been for some time. But there has never been a mention of $200 million. And no one has even hinted at
linking the deal to Palau's acceptance of the Uighurs. The United States simply offered to pay relocation costs for the
Uighurs of less than $90,000 per person to cover transportation, food, housing and medical help until the men can get
oriented and get jobs.
Palau is a small and peaceful community. Its constitution bans weapons of all kinds. Capital crimes are virtually unknown.
Social life revolves around the family. Children wander from house to house. Could anyone believe that the leaders of
Palau would risk the safety and serenity of their modern Eden in exchange for money? Is it plausible that these close-knit
people would countenance the presence of terrorists in their midst? I can assure you the answer is no.
Last week, the Palauans lowered their flags to half-staff in memory of Sgt. Jasper Obakrairur, a Palauan who joined the
United States Marines and died on June 1 helping to root out the Taliban in Afghanistan. He was the fourth Palauan
serviceman to die in recent years, following his fallen comrades in American uniform Cpl. JayGee Meluat, Cpl.
Meresebang Ngiraked and Specialist Philton Ueld. The people of Palau are very proud of them, and of our country's special
relationship with the United States. Can't Americans be proud of the relationship, too?
Stuart Beck is Palau's permanent representative to the United Nations. --- 
Dear Hillary,
Hope you are resting comfortably. Please take this as an excuse to get much needed rest. Lots of
people have expressed best wishes for you to me--Sean Wilentz, Joe Conason, Gene Lyons, etc--so
if they haven't contacted you because you're behind a wall you should know that many, many people
are thinking about you now.
I spoke this morning to Gary Sick, who, you recall, was senior person on NSC during the Iran hostage
crisis, and is now at Columbia. He has one of the best intelligence networks on Iran, 1,500 people,
experts with extensive contacts, and many Iranians, deeply embedded in the unfolding events
Gary tells me that Mousavi has evolved from a mild-mannered
reformer to directly challenging the regime. Nobody, he says, knows where this will go, certainly not
the Iranians. Khamenei has exposed himself and lost his aura of mystification, plunging into the arena
as a political player. Mousavi has issued a new revolutionary manifesto, just translated; I enclose
below Sick's report and analysis on it. This poses, Sick says, a new challenge to Khamenei. Does he
let it stand? Does he answer it? Sick also says US diplomacy in fact can't accomplish anything with
the regime until the crisis completely works its way out, which could take years. He points out that the
first mass demonstrations against the Shah occurred a full year before his overthrow. He adds that
the one thing the regime has learned fro m the Shah is not to be equivocal toward demonstrations.
Two ideas, who knows, but here they are: 1. Though the regime uses Western protests to consolidate
control, some of them contribute to its deep crisis of legitimacy. Sick says Obama's statement, for
example, was good. He also cites a statement from Ban Ki Moon. If there would be a UN action,
shouldn't it focus ont he human rights/violence aspect? A statement and/or resolution urging the
regime to stop illegitimate violence of paramilitary militias? US shouldn't initiate. 2. Establish linkage
in negotiations with Russians on Start between their objections to missile defense outposts in Poland
and Czech Republic (especially if we plan to give them up) with Russian arms sales to Iran.
Get well. See Sick analysis below.
Sid
5ousavi's New Revolutionary Manifesto
by Gary Sick
June 21, 2009 I 10:51am
—
L Alfred, Sipa / AP Photo The Iranian protest movement reached a tipping point today, writes Gary Sick,
•
the key White House offical during the 1979 hostage crisis, and what has emerged is nothing short of a platform for
a true Islamic democracy.
Plus, read more insight on Iran's election from other Daily Beast writers.
Today, Mir Hossein Mousavi, the presidential candidate who has come to represent the democratic aspirations
of the Iranian people, issued a formal statement.
Although he denounces the "lies and fraud" of the leadership, particularly in the recent election, he views the
fraudulent election as only as the symptom of something far more serious. He describes a revolution gone
wrong, a revolution that was originally based on attention to the voice of the peo ple but has resulted in "forcing
an unwanted government on the nation."
It is apparent from this statement that Mousavi's movement—and Mousavi himself—have evolved enormously
in the past week.
This moment is "a turning point," he says, and he defines the movement that is forming around him as having a
"historical mission" to accomplish nothing less than "renewing the life of the nation" according to its own
ideals.
He acknowledges, interestingly, that his own voice at the beginning was less "eloquent" than he would have
wished and that the people were ahead of him in turning the movement green. But now he accepts the "burden
of duty put on our shoulders by the destiny of generations and ages."
He denounces both extremes of the political spectrum: on one hand those who believe that "Islamic government
is the same as Tyranny of the Rightful;" and on the other, those who "consider religion and Islam to be blockers
for realization of republicanism," i.e. those who believe that democracy is incompatible with Islam.
Mousavi says his call for annulment of the election and a revote, supervised by an impartial national body, "is a
given right." The objective is nothing less than "to achieve a new type of political life in the country."
That is truly a revolutionary statement. He says he will stand by the side of all those seeking "new solutions" in
a n on-violent way. He accepts the principles and the institutions of the Islamic Republic, including the
Revolutionary Guard and the basij, but denounces "deviations and deceptions." He demands reform "that
returns us to the pure principles of the Islamic Revolution."
He calls for freedom of expression in all its forms, and says that if the government permits people to express
their views freely, "there won't be a need for the presence of military and regulatory forces in the streets."
It is apparent from this statement that Mousavi's movement—and Mousavi himself—have evolved enormously
in the past week. The candidate started as a mild-mannered reformer. After the searing events of the past several
days, he has dared to preach a counter sermon to Khamene'i's lecture on Islamic government. Although he never
mentions the Leader by name, there is no overlooking the direct contradiction of his arguments. This open
opposition to the Leader by a political figure is unprecedented. •
Mousavi has in fact issued a manifesto for a new vision of the Islamic Republic. The repression and disdain of
the government has brought the opposition to a place they probably never dreamed of going. And no one knows
where any of the parties are likely to go next.
But for outside observers, it is like standing on the edge of a glacier and feeling the ice begin to crack under
your feet.
Gary Sick served on the National Security Council staff under Presidents Ford, Carter and Reagan. He was the
principal White House aide for Iran during the Iranian Revolution and the hostage crisis and is the author of
two books on U.S.-Iranian relations. Mr. Sick is a captain (ret.) in the US. Navy, with service in the Persian
Gulf North Africa and the Mediterranean. He was the deputy director for International Affairs at the Ford
Foundation from 1982 to 1987, where he was responsible for programs relating to US. foreign policy. Mr. Sick
has a Ph.D. in political science from Columbia University, where he is Senior Research Scholar, adjunct
professor of international affairs and former director of the Middle East Institute (2000-2003). He is the
executive director of Gulf/2000, an international research project on political, economic and security
developments in the Persian Gulf being conducted at Columbia University with support from a number of
major foundations. He is co-editor offour books on the Persian Gulf published by the Gulf/2000 project and
Palgrave (formerly St Martin's) Press in New York. Mr. Sick is a member (emeritus) of the board of Human
Rights Watch in New York and founding chairman of its Middle East and North Africa advisory committee.
RZL: http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2009-06-21/mousavis-new-revolutionary-m anifesto/p/
An Excellent Credit Score is 750. See Yours in Just 2 Easy Steps! --- 
FYI --- 
Yesterday, June 21, Chatham House in UK published a detailed study of the Iranian vote, concluding
from close analysis that the election results were a fraud. This is the most definitive objective analysis
so far. Sid
http://www.chathamhouse.org.uk/files/14234_iranelection0609.pdf
This paper is published by Chatham House and
the Institute of Iranian Studies, University of St
Andrews
Preliminary Analysis of the Voting
Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential
Election
Editor:
Professor Ali Ansari, Director, Institute of Iranian Studies,
University of St Andrews; Associate Fellow, Middle East and
North Africa Programme, Chatham House; author, 'Iran,
Islam and Democracy'
Research and Analysis:
Daniel Berman and Thomas Rintoul, Institute of Iranian
Studies, University of St Andrews
21 June 2009
Chatham House is independent and owes no allegiance to government or
to any political body. It does not hold opinions of its own; the views
expressed in this text are the responsibility of the authors. This
document is issued on the understanding that if any extract is used, the
authors and Chatham House should be credited, preferably with the date
of the publication.
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 2
Executive Summary
Working from the province by province breakdowns of the 2009 and 2005
results, released by the Iranian Ministry of Interior, and from the 2006 census
as published by the official Statistical Centre of Iran, the following observations
about the official data and the debates surrounding it can be made.
•In two conservative provinces, Mazandaran and Yazd, a turnout of
more than 100% was recorded.
•At a provincial level, there is no correlation between the increased
turnout and the swing to Ahmadinejad. This challenges the notion that
Ahmadinejad's victory was due to the massive participation of a
previously silent conservative majority.
•In a third of all provinces, the official results would require that
Ahmadinejad took not only all former conservative voters, all former
centrist voters, and all new voters, but also up to 44% of former
Reformist voters, despite a decade of conflict between these two
groups.
•In 2005, as in 2001 and 1997, conservative candidates, and
Ahmadinejad in particular, were markedly unpopular in rural areas.
That the countryside always votes conservative is a myth. The claim
that this year Ahmadinejad swept the board in more rural provinces
flies in the face of these trends.
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 3
1. Irregularities in Voter Turnout
Two provinces show a turnout of over 100% and four more show a turnout of
over 90%. Regional variations in participation have disappeared. There is no
correlation between the increase in participation, and the swing to
Ahm adinejad.
Firstly, across the board there is a massive increase in turnout, with several
provinces increasing their participation rate by nearly 75%. This increase
results in substantially less variation in turnout between provinces, with the
standard deviation amongst provincial turnouts falling by just over 23% since
2005. The 2005 results show a substantial turnout gap, with seven provinces
recording turnout below 60%, and ten above 70%. In 2009, only two were
below 70% and 24 were above 80%. In fact, 21 out of 30 provinces had
turnouts within 5% of 83%. The data seems to suggest that regional variations
in participation have suddenly disappeared.
This makes the evident lack of any sort of correlation between the provinces
that saw an increase in turnout and those that saw a swing to Ahmadinejad
(Fig.1) all the more unusual. There is no significant correlation between the
increase in participation for a given province and the swing to Ahmadinejad
(Fig.1). This lack of correlation makes the argument that an increase in
participation by a previously silent conservative majority won the election for
Ahmadinejad somewhat problematic.
Furthermore, there are concerns about the numbers themselves. Two
provinces, Mazandaran and Yazd, have results which indicate that more votes
were cast on 12 June than there were eligible voters and that four more
provinces had turnouts in the mid-nineties.
In a country where allegations of 'tombstone voting' — the practice200f using the
identity documents of the deceased to cast additional ballots — are both longstanding
and widespread, this result is troubling but perhaps not unexpected.
This problem did not start with Ahmadinejad; according to official statistics
gathered by the International institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance
in Stockholm, there were 12.9% more registered voters at the time of
Mohammed Khatami's 2001 victory than there were citizens of voting age.
In conclusion, a number of aspects of the reported turnout figures are
problematic. The massive increases from 2005, the collapse of regional
variations, and the absence of any clear correlation between increases in
turnout and increased support for any candidate on their own make the results
problematic.
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 4
Source: Ministry of Interior Publications 2005 and 2009 (See appendix)
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 5
2. Where did Ahmadinejad's New Votes Come From?
According to the official Ministry of Interior voting data (see Appendix),
Mahmud Ahmadinejad has increased the conservative vote by 113%
compared to the 2005 election. There is little correlation in provincial level
results between the increase in turnout and the swing to the President,
challenging the notion that a previously silent conservative majority has come
out to support him. Interestingly, in 1.0 out of 30 provinces, mainly former
Mehdi Karrubi strongholds, the official data suggests that Ahmadinejad
received not only the votes of all former non-voters and former Rafsanjani
voters, but also took up to 44% of the vote from those who had previously
voted Reformist.
According to the official data1, Mahmud Ahmadinejad has received
approximately 13m more votes in this election than the combined conservative
vote in the 2005 Presidential election2.
Assuming that Ahmadinejad retained all 11.5m Conservative votes from 2005,
these additional 13m votes could have come from three sources, in
descending order of likelihood:
•The approximately 10.6m citizens who did not vote in 2005, but chose
to vote in this election
•The 6.2m citizens who voted for the centrist Rafsanjani in 2005
•The 10.4m citizens who voted for Reformist candidates in 2005
In order to examine in detail where Ahmadinejad's increased support came
from, the table below (Fig.3) shows the composition of the 2009 vote by
province, dividing it into those who voted Conservative, Rafsanjani, and
Reformist in 2005, and those who did not vote at all in 2005. It assumes that
2005 voters will vote again.
The table demonstrates that in the 10 of Iran's 30 provinces highlighted red, in
order for the official statistics to be correct Ahmadinejad would have needed to
win over all new voters, all former Rafsanjani voters, and also up to 44% of
former reformist voters.
1 Serious complaints have been raised about both the 2005 elections and the 2009
elections. Government data is not perfectly reliable.
2 In 2005 there were three Conservative candidates in the first round. Ahmadinejad can
reasonably be expected to have received in 2009, all votes cast for Conservatives in
2005. Here, Ahmadinejad's 2009 performance is compared to the combined
performance of all three Conservatives in 2005.
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 6
It is notable that many of these are provinces where the Reformist cleric Mehdi
Karrubi polled highly in 2005, and the government's figures would appear to
suggest that his former supporters have not voted tactically for the likely
Reformist challenger Mir Hussein Musavi, as many had expected, but rather
that they have defected to the hard-line conservative incumbent Ahmadinejad.
This interpretation is to some extent supported by the relationship between the
percentage of former Karrubi voters in a province, and its swing to
Ahmadinejad (Fig.2).
To many Reformists, this situation is extremely unlikely. Mehdi Karrubi is a
well-known reformist, of polar opposite views to Ahmadinejad on issues of
political and cultural freedoms, economic management, and foreign policy.
They allege fraud, and it is likely that the provinces where Karrubi's vote has
collapsed will provide the bulk of the 600+ complaints which the defeated
c andidates are lodging against the conduct of the election.
However, Karrubi, like Ahmadinejad, is seen as a 'man of the people', and
Ahmadinejad is as much a re-incarnation of the Islamic Republic's early hard
left as he is a leader of its current hard-right. Ahmadinejad's supporters thus
claim that rural voters voted for Ahmadinejad in 2009 for precisely the same
reasons that they voted for Karrubi in 2005.
The data offers no arbitration in this dispute, although Roukema's application
of statistical fraud detection techniques to the 'by district' data has turned up
some anomalies with respect to the figures for Karrubi's vote,3 which may
suggest that they were created by a computer. These can be followed up
should the fully disaggregated 'by polling station' data be released during the
ongoing dispute.
3 B Roukena, 'Benford's Law Anomalies in the 2009 Iranian Presidential Election' (as
yet unpublished article, 2009).
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 7
Source: Ministry of Interior Publications 2005 and 2009 (See appendix)
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 8
Potential sources of new votes for Ahmadinejad (Fig.3)
Province
Ahmadinejad
Voters '09
Ahmadinejad
Voters '05
Other
Conservative
Voters '05
Non-Voters
'05
Rafsanjani
Voters '05
Reformist Voters '05
Assumed Take
of Former
Reformist
Voters
East
Azerbaijan
1,131,111 198,417 150,235 684,745 268,954 690,784 -24.79%
West
Azerbaijan
623,946 75,319 156,724 520,896 151,525 409,798 -68.45%
Ardebil 325,911 34,090 114,038 161,510 95,490 232,505 -34.07%
Isfahan 1,799,255 801,635 271,861 854,867 260,858 423,098 -92.17%
Ilam 199,654 32,383 47,865 20,165 40,580 168,179 34.88%
Bushehr 299,357 82,376 55,169 81,202 97,412 171,637 -9.79%
Tehran 3,819,495 1,500,829 860,548 2,424,653 1,274,276 1,345,533 -166.54%
Chaharmahal
& Bakhtiari
359,578 90,960 87,195 126,366 59,521 128,451 -3.48%
Southern
Khorasan
285,984 101,638 54,759 95,657 57,244 71,939 -32.41%
Razavi
Khorasan
2,214,801 377,732 956,641 638,925 527,707 656,736 -43.58%
Northern
Khorasan
341,104 22,954 116,991 115,487 70,407 135,090 11.30%
Khuzestan 1,303,129 232,874 206,798 543,802 319,921 707,428 -0.04%
Zanjan 444,480 93,309 94,234 132,237 110,698 150,062 9.33%
Semnan 295,177 98,024 65,249 90,128 69,773 56,344 -49.69%
Sistan &
Baluchistan
450,269 47,743 93,559 117,432 155,147 563,454 6.46%
Fars 1,758,026 242,535 334,925 738,209 403,074 786,195 5.00%
Qazvin 498,061 118,414 102,048 188,868 108,928 168,013 -12.02%
Qom 422,457 256,110 36,686 125,178 104,004 67,557 -147.31%
Kordestan 315,689 22,353 59,174 251,014 54,004 211,918 -33.44%
Kerman 1,160,446 129,284 333,275 337,502 480,271 215,357 -55.67%
Kermanshah 573,568 70,117 137,472 251,113 137,010 374,100 -5.92%
Kohgilouye &
Boyerahmad
253,962 34,396 72,565 53,615 56,154 148,985 24.99%
Golestan 515,211 56,776 129,856 156,256 155,498 358,715 4.69%
Gilan 998,573 149,026 221,632465,190 215,478 420,258 -12.55%
Lorestan 677,829 69,710 101,394 162,848 121,130 500,859 44.47%
Mazandaran 1,289,257 159,291 581,654 581,269 311,949 270,104 -127.69%
Markezi 572,988 161,669 89,086 200,024 143,118 184,172 -11.35%
Hormozegan 482,990 81,054 103,487 136,459 75,601 340,740 25.35%
Hamedan 765,723 195,030 96,988 218,400 175,997 322,938 24.56%
Yazd 337,178175,206 76,209 150,781 77,924 123,828 -115.44%
Totals 24,515,209 5,711,254 5,808,317 10,624,798 6,179,653 10,404,777
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 9
3. Do Rural Voters Support Ahmadinejad?
Many commentators have suggested, before and after the Presidential
Election, that Ahmadinejad is very popular in rural areas and that this explains
his high levels of support. However, the data from the 2005 Presidential
election does not support this contention. Instead, it confirms that what
support Ahmadinejad did gain in 2005 was mainly from urban and suburban
areas. The graphs below show the levels of support for Ahmadinejad against
the rural population of the province in question (Fig.4) and Conservatives as a
group (Fig.5).
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 10
Source: Ministry of Interior Publications 2005 and 2009 and Iranian Census of
2006 (see appendix)
This data supports the con tention of academic experts on rural Iranian politics4
that rural voters have not been the dedicated Ahmadinejad supporters
occasionally described in western media. This is supported by the fact that
much of Iran's rural population is comprised of ethnic minorities: Lors, Baluch,
•
Kurdish, and Arab amongst others. These ethnic minorities have a history both
of voting Reformist and of voting for members of their own ethnic group. For
example, they were an important segment of Khatami's vote in 1997 and 2001
and voted largely for Karrubi and Mostafa Moin in 2005.
The 2009 data suggests a sudden shift in political support with precisely these
rural provinces, which had not previously supported Ahmadinejad or any other
conservative (Fig.5) showing substantial swings to Ahmadinejad (Fig.6). At the
same time, the official data suggests that the vote for Mehdi Karrubi, who was
extremely popular in these rural, ethnic minority areas in 2005, has collapsed
entirely even in his home province of Lorestan, where his vote has gone from
440,247 (55.5%) in 2005 to just 44,036 (4.6%) in 2009. This is paralleled by
an overall swing of 50.9% to Ahmadinejad, with official results suggesting that
he has captured the support of 47.5% of those who cast their ballots for
4 Cf. Hooglund 'Iran's Rural Vote and Election Fraud' Agence Global, 17 June 2009.
http://www.agenceglobal.com/Article.asp?Id=2034
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 11
Reformist candidates in 2005. This, more than any other result, is highly
implausible, and has been the subject of much debate in Iran.
This increase in support for Ahmadinejad amongst rural and ethnic minoritiy
voters is out of step with previous trends, extremely large in scale, and central
to the question of why (or indeed whether) he won in June 2009.
Source: Ministry of Interior Publications 2005 and 2009 and Iranian Census of
2006 (see appendix)
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 12
Appendix
By Province Results for the 2009 Iranian Presidential Election
Source: Iranian Ministry of Interior 2009
Available at:
http://www.moi.ir/Portal/Home/ShowPage.aspx?Object=News&ID=e3dffc8f-9d5a-4a54-
bbcd-74ce90361c62&LayoutID=b05ef124-0db1-4d33-bOb6-
90f50139044b&CategorylD=832a711b-95fe-4505-8aa3-38f5e17309c9
Province Ahmadinejad Rezai Karrubi Musavi Invalid
Total Votes
Cast
Total Valid
Votes
1
East
Azerbaijan 1,131,111 16,920 7,246 837,858 17205 2,010,340 1,993,135
2
West
Azerbaijan 623,946 12,199 21,609 656,508 20094 1,334,356 1,314,262
3 Ardebil 325,911 6,578 2,319 302,825 4372 642,005 637,633
4 Isfahan 1,799,255 51,788 14,579 746,697 25162 2,637,481 2,612,319
5 Ilam 199,654 5,221 7,471 96,826 3495 312,667 309,172
6 Bushehr 299,357 7,608 3,563 177,268 6193 493,989 487,796
7 Tehran 3,819,495 147,487 67,334 3,371,523 115701 7,521,540 7,405,839
8
Chaharmahal
& Bakhtia ri 359,578 22,689 4,127 106,099 2953 495,446 492,493
9
Southern
Khorasan 285,984 3,962 928 90,363 1920 383,157 381,237
10
Razavi
Khorasan 2,214,801 44,809 13,561 884,570 24240 3,181,981 3,157,741
11
Northern
Khorasan 341,104 4,129 2,478 113,218 3072 464,001 460,929
12 Khuzestan 1,303,129 139,124 15,934 552,636 28022 2,038,845 2,010,823
13 Zanjan 444,480 7,276 2,223 126,561 5,181 585,721 580,540
14 Semnan 295,177 4,440 2,147 77,754 3790 383,308 379,518
15
Sistan &
Baluchistan 450,269 6,616 12,504 507,946 5585 982,920 977,335
16 Fars 1,758,026 23,871 16,277 706,764 18359 2,523,297 2,504,938
17 Qazvin 498,061 7,978 2,690 177,542 6084 692,355 686,271
18 Qom 422,457 16,297 2,314 148,467 9505 599,040 589,535
19 Kordestan 315,689 7,140 13,862 261,772 12293 610,756 598,463
20 Kerman 1,160,446 12,016 4,977 318,250 10125 1,505,814 1,495,689
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 13
21 Kermanshah 573,568 11,258 10,798 374,188 13610 983,422 969,812
22
Kohgilouye
Boyerahmad 253962 8542 4274 98937 2311 368,026 365,715
23 Golestan 515,211 5,987 10,097 325,806 14266 871,367 857,101
24 Gilan 998,573 12,022 7,183 453,806 11674 1,483,258 1,471,584
25 Lorestan 677,829 14,920 44,036 219,156 8329 964,270 955,941
26 Mazandaran 1,289,257 19,587 10,050 585,373 15571 1,919,838 1,904,267
27 Markezi 572,988 10,057 4,675 190,349 7889 785,958 778,069
28 Hormozegan 482,990 7,237 5,126 241,988 5683 743,024 737,341
29 Hamedan 765,723 13,117 12,032 218,481 9816 1,019,169 1,009,353
30 Yazd 337,178 8,406 2,565 255,799 5908 609,856 603,948
Totals 24,515,209 659,281 328,979 13,225,330 418,408 39,147,207 38,728,799
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 14
By Province Electoral Results for 2005
Source: Ministry of Interior 2005
Available at: http://psephos.adam-carr.net/countries/i/iran/iran20052.bct
Province Ahmadinejad Karrubi Larijani Mehralizadeh Moin Qalibaf Rafsajani Totals
Azarbaijan-e
Sharqi
198,417 121,969 28,075 378,604 190,211 122,160 268,954 1,308,390
Azarbaijan-e
Gharbi 75,319 99,766 15,435 163,091 146,941 141,289 151,525 793,366
Ardabil 34,090 53,906 7,766 111,465 67,134 106,272 95,490 476,123
Esfahan 801,635 196,512 73,452 30,325 196,261 198,409 260,858 1,757,452
Ilam 32,383 108,627 6,783 3,026 56,526 41,082 40,580 289,007
Bushehr 82,376 98,148 8,207 4,942 68,547 46,962 97,412 406,594
Tehran 1,500,829 415,187 246,167 281,748 648,598 614,381 1,274,276 4,981,186
Chahar Mahal
va Bakhtiari 90,960 75,044 23,127 5,051 48,356 64,068 59,521 366,127
Khorasan-e
Janubi
101,638 27,705 5,716 4,958 39,276 49,043 57,244 285,580
Khorasan-e
Razavi 377,732 297,967 78,976 33,488 325,281 877,665 527,707 2,518,816
Khorasan-e
Shomali
22,954 89,551 16,900 8,209 37,330 100,091 70,407 345,442
Khuzestan 232,874 538,735 58,564 20,164 148,529 148,234 319,921 1,467,021
Zanjan 93,309 62,845 22,869 18,568 68,649 71,365 110,698 448,303
Semnan 98,024 25,899 28,190 3,873 26,572 37,059 69,773 289,390
Sistan va
Baluchestan
47,743 77,017 24,954 7,312 479,125 68,605 155,147 859,903
Fars 242,535 546,633 61,383 22,440 217,122 273,542 403,074 1,766,729
Qazvin 118,414 81,569 24,649 18,078 68,366 77,399 108,928 497,403
Qom 256,110 25,282 10,894 14,451 27,824 25,792 104,004 464,357
Kurdestan 22,353 111,249 10,261 7,785 92,884 48,913 54,004 347,449
Kerman 129,284 152,764 221,219 9,697 52,896 112,056 480,271 1,158,187
Kermanshah 70,117 254,780 22,033 12,516 106,804 115,439 137,010 718,699
Kohgiluyeh va
Buyer Ahmad 34,396 96,459 20,306 1,572 50,954 52,259 56,154 312,100
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 15
Golestan 56,776 193,570 42,334 8,283 156,862 87,522 155,498 700,845
Gilan 149,026 203,941 50,070 33,996 182,321 171,562 215,478 1,006,394
Lorestan 69,710 440,247 31,169 6,865 53,747 70,225 121,130 793,093
Mazandaran 159,291 103,229 464,891 18,467 148,408 116,763 311,949 1,322,998
Markazi 161,669 104,522 17,258 14,058 65,592 71,828 143,118 578,045
Horrnozegan 81,054 177,413 78,161 9,679 153,648 25,326 75,601 600,882
Hamadan 195,030 218,018 24,002 20,496 84,424 72,986 175,997 790,953
Yazd 175,206 58,132 9,317 5,186 60,510 66,892 77,924 453,167 '
Totals 5,711,254 5,056,686 1,733,128 1,278,393 4,069,698 4,075,189 6,179,653 28,104,001
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 16
Urban and Rural Populations by Province
Source: Iranian Census of 2006, Statistical Centre of Iran.
Availa ble at:
http://www.sci.orgir/content/userfilesLsci_en/sci_en/sel/year8502/CS_02_6.H
TM
Urban Rural Unsettled
Province
Absolute % Absolute % Absolute'%
Total
East
Azerbaijan
2,402,539 66.67% 1,200,820 33.32% 97 0.00% 3,603,456
West
Azerbaijan
1,724,954 60.03% 1,148,505 39.97% 0 0.00% 2,873,459
Ardebil
715,597 58.27% 512,195 41.70% 363 0.03% 1,228,155
Isfahan
3,798,728 83.32% 758,890 16.65% 1,638 0.04% 4,559,256
Ilam
331,231 60.69% 210,703 38.61% 3,853 0.71% 545,787
Bushehr
577,465 65.16% 303,409 34.23% 5,393 0.61% 886,267
Tehran
12,260,431 91.34% 1,161,889 8.66% 46 0.00% 13,422,366
Chaharmahal
& Bakhtiari
442,298 51.56% 414,624 48.33% 988 0.12% 857,910
Southern
Khorasan
326,695 51.33% 308,305 48.44% 1,420 0.22% 636,420
Razavi
Khorasan
3,811,900 68.15% 1,779,980 31.82% 1,199 0.02% 5,593,079
Northern
Khorasan
392,458 48.36% 414,365 51.06% 4,749 0.59% 811,572
Khuzestan
2,873,564 67.22% 1,383,946 32.37% 17,469 0.41% 4,274,979
Zanjan
559,340 57.99% 405,261 42.01% 0 0.00% 964,601
Semnan
440,559 74.70% 149,183 25.30% 0 0.00% 589,742
Sistan &
Baluchistan
1,193,198 49.60% 1,206,547 50.15% 5,997 0.25% 2,405,742
Fars
2,652,947 61.17% 1,650,614 38.06% 33,317 0.77% 4,336,878
Qazvin
777,975 68.05% 365,203 31.95% 22 0.00% 1,143,200
Qom
983,094 93.92% 63,639 6.08% 40.00% 1,046,737
Kordestan
855,819 59.43% 584,337 40.57% 0 0.00% 1,440,156
Kerman
1,552,519 58.53% 1,089,748 41.09% 10,146 0.38% 2,652,413
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figur es in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 17
Kermanshah
1,255,319 66.79% 618,718 32.92% 5,348 0.28% 1,879,385
Kohgiluyeh &
Boyerahmad
302,192 47.64% 329,849 52.00% 2,258 0.36% 634,299
Golestan
795,126 49.17% 819,584 50.68% 2,377 0.15% 1,617,087
Gilan
1,295,751 53.88% 1,109,104 46.12% 60.00% 2,404,861
Lorestan
1,020,150 59.43% 691,448 40.28% 4,929 0.29% 1,716,527
Mazandaran
1,554,143 53.18% 1,368,233 46.82% 56 0.00% 2,922,432
Markezi
932,073 68.98% 419,184 31.02% 0 0.00% 1,351,257
Hormozegan
661,325 47.11% 740,605 52.76% 1,744 0.12% 1,403,674
Hamedan
980,771 57.58% 721,225 42.34% 1,271 0.07% 1,703,267
Yazd
789,803 79.71% 200,988 20.29% 27 0.00% 990,818
Totals
48,259,964 68% 22,131,101 31% 104,717 0.15% 70,495,782
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
wvvw.chathamhouse.org.uk 18
Official Turnout Figures for I. R. Iran Elections (Fig. 7)
Year Type Turnout
1980 Majlis 52%
1980 Presidential 70%
1981 Presidential 68%
1981 Presidential 79%
1982 Assembly of Experts 78%
1984 Majlis 65%
1985 Presidential 60%
1988 Majlis 59%
1989 Presidential 60%
1990 Assembly of Experts 38%
1992 Majlis 59%
1993 Presidential 52%
1996 Majlis 71%
1997 Presidential 76%
1998 Assembly of Experts 45%
1999 Municipal 60%
2000 Majlis 69%
2001 Presidential 68%
2003 Municipal 48%
2004 Majlis 60%
2005 Presidential 63%
2005 Presidential 60%
2006 Municipal Not available
2006 Ass embly of Experts Not available
2008 Majlis 54%
2009 Presidential 84%
Preliminary Analysis of Voting Figures in Iran's 2009 Presidential Election
www.chathamhouse.org.uk 19
Changes in Voter Turnout by Province (Fig.8)
Province Turnout
2009
Turnout
2005
Participation
Swing
East Azerbaijan 82% 51% 30%
West Azerbaijan 71% 44% 27%
Ardebil 80% 54% 26%
Isfahan 88% 59% 30%
Ilam 87% 80% 7%
Bushehr 85% 72% 13%
Tehran 86% 64% 22%
Chaharmahal & Bakhtiari 88% 65% 23%
Combined Khorasans 86% 71% 15%
Khuzestan 73% 55% 17%
Zanjan 93% 65% 27%
Semnan 88% 73% 14%
Sistan & Baluchistan 75% 74% 1%
Fars 89% 61% 27%
Qazvin 92% 69% 23%
Qom 91% 77% 14%
Kordestan 65% 37% 27%
Kerman 87% 78% 9%
Kermanshah 80% 62% 18%
Golestan 82% 55% 27%
Gilan 94% 65% 29%
Lorestan 86% 58% 27%
Mazandaran 100% 67% 33%
Markezi 89% 65% 24%
Hormozegan 81% 62% 19%
Hamedan 81% 78% 3%
Yazd 100% 76% 24%
A Good Credit Score is 700 or Above. See yours in just 2 easy steps! --- 
FYI --- 
FYI below --- 
rosemarie.howe
Hrc has selected option B from the drawings. What are next steps?
1C3 --- 
Fyi --- 
Fyi --- 
RELEASE IN PART
B5, B6 --- 
See below in case this bics an issue. --- 
 --- 
Great, will do. --- 
Huma:
Please print for HRC.
Thanks.
cdm
50 --- 
 --- 
Longtime Clinton confidant Blumenthal to become Clinton advisor
Tue, 06/23/2009 - 1:00pm
Longtime journalist and former Clinton White House advisor Sidney Blumenthal will become a special advisor
without portfolio to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, The Cable has learned. Blumenthal refused to comment.
But sources say he is filling out the paperwork and disentangling himself from other obligations as he moves to
become a special advisor to the secretary whose presidential campaign he helped advise. The position would
not require Senate confirmation.
Clinton, who is recovering from surgery to repair a broken elbow, has been building her team at the State
Department, while establishing her credentials as a team player supporting and amplifying her former
presidential rival's foreign-policy vision. Sources close to her says she will prove indispensable to Obama, a
point several Obama aides also made to Politico's Ben Smith in a piece noting the relatively background role
she has played in these early months. The planned addition of Blumenthal, a longtime confidant of the Clinton
family and a fierce defender of Bill Clinton's presidential legacy, could indicate she plans to raise her profile.
(Blumenthal is probably Clinton's best speechwriter, a friend notes.)
In the foreign-policy arena, Blumenthal advised former President Clinton on U.S.-British relations, and first
introduced him to future British Prime Minister Tony Blair. He has also been active in the Third Way-
Progressive Governance process. A former Washington Post reporter, Blumenthal has contributed
commentary and editorial advice to Vanity Fair, Tina Brown's new online magazine The Daily Beast, the New
Yorker, and Salon. Blumenthal has also been a fellow at New York University's Center on Law and Security.
Laura Rozen I Permalink I fA9ç%'1 Comments? Login or register
52 --- 
Secretary (S. 321 and S. 840)
Rich - This is legislation voinovich talked to her about.
To: Abedin, Huma --- 
Verma, Richard R WermaRR@state.gov>
Tuesday, June 23, 2009 7:12 PM
Abedin, Huma
Re: Follow-up information regarding legislation mentioned in Senator Voinovich's call to the
Secretary (S. 321 and S. 840)
Got it. We are evaluating how best to respond. --- 
A Good Credit Score is 700 or Above. See yours in just 2 easy steps! --- 
 --- 
FYI — nice.
cdm --- 
Fyi below - did not come up at the briefing. --- 
FYI —Spoke to INR Team (about 100 folks) today b/c they were concerned about their value and folks
impression of their work and commitment bic of the Myers matter.
cdm --- 
Tuesday, June 9, 2009 8:33 PM
H2; Huma Abedin
ame in 3rd
Ran an incredible race. Terrified the machine with his campaign. Whisper campaign against him was "he's too young"
and under educated to trust. But he beat 2 seasoned opponents. You would be proud. He stayed positive and focused
throughout out. The best man lost.
Thank you for standing with him. If you need it,
LoveF7
Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry --- 
Left final schedule in car.
Isabelle set for 7:30am
Russians have not confirmed 730am call. Call sheet won't come till the morning.
Marianne set for 8:30pm tomorrow night. --- 
 --- 
FYI — See article below --- 
FYI --- 
A) --- 
I'm sending call sheet as soon as it comes. Jake suggesting that u might want to check in with jim steinberg before the
call too. --- 
Call sheet on its way.
Steinberg has cleared
45 --- 
I believe rob prepared one today for you to sign. He will confirm. --- 
Yes - you signed one to him this afternoon on your personal stationery. I was planning to put it in the mail tomorrow
morning. --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Thursday, June n, 2009 5:42 AM
Fw: COS call 6/10/09
Fyi --- 
53 --- 
 --- 
Will do. --- 
!? --- 
My question exactly - sent to bill --- 
Yes, 2:15pm. --- 
Strobe Talbott
Thursday, June 11, 2009 8:08 AM
Re: Questions
Sure - how to follow up? I'm on cell --- 
also, I've got great young guy (30ish) to suggest for the assistant position if you're interested in someone of huge
promise and total dedication and immense intelligence again, don't know whether to do this one with you directly or
with jake or Cheryl --- 
Will do! --- 
Soon as I saw it I emailed Bob Blake. --- 
We have - you said it was you - this was an fyi --- 
See traffic below — read down to first email --- 
Interesting take on China below. --- 
Your request is being processed...
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/steve-clemons/can-national-security-adv b 214672.html
Steve Clemons
Director of the American Strategy Program at the New America Foundation
Posted: June 12, 2009 07:12 AM
Can National Security Adviser James Jones Survive
a Second Round of Attacks and "Longer Knives"?
I am here in London where I'm participating in an interesting forum sponsored by the Princeton Project on
National Security and the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) Transatlantic Program, I've received not just
one email -- but three -- from prominent insider journalists and policy hands that Jim Jones' tenure as National
Security Adviser is highly fragile.
One of these emails reports starkly:
Knives getting longer
That's all my contact said. But other emails have intimated to me a serious tone-deafness by Jones about his role
and responsibilities, his relationship with the President, and his relationship with younger, dedicated,
hardworking and late-working staff. Jones recently said that National Security Council staff members that
stayed longer than 7:30 pm must be disorganized in their work.
I speak to various NSC officials -- often at 10:00 or 11:00 pm at night. They are hardworking, racing as fast as
they can to manage the many, many, many major initiatives that Barack Obama has decided to simultaneously
pursue.
James Jones is considered by his admirers to be a genius when thinking about management structures and
decision-making processes. On the other hand, his critics see him as a plodding, slow-moving, out of touch
retired general who was better prepared to think about the last era rather than the one we are moving into. His
°critics think that he's just too unable to animate nimble, high flex policy decision making products for a White
House on a manic dash to get a lot of top tier issues dealt with.
Friends at the National Security Council respect a great deal the way in which NSC Deputy Tom Donilon is
managing his brief Many see him picking up the load that Jones seems unable or unwilling to carry. Donilon is
deeply engaged in the broad Middle East and Iran portfolio, the non-proliferation/WMD/arms control portfolio,
the China economic and security portfolio, and he has -- according to reports -- supported and helped cultivate
relationship building between State, DoD, the NSC, and other parts of the national security bureaucracy.
Some tell me that James Jones decided to try and remove himself from the "whack-a-mole" crisis reaction style
of decision-making that could rob the Obama administration of the chance to define a new course in national
security affairs. Tom Donilon, according to reports, wields far more the hand of power when it comes to day to
day management and responding to crises that require presidential attention and response.
Jones, in contrast, has been obsessed with the structure of decisions -- who is involved in those decisions, what
the structure of decision-making should be, and what legal modifications to this process need to be made. He
looks at that as the big nut that needs to be cracked -- and that would improve, according to Jim Jones, the
President's effectiveness and chances of success at a macro level.
Jones' self-determined task is not high profile, mostly structural, and has not won him many admirers for
leadership -- but what he is doing is necessary. If he departs his role, this challenge of dealing with the growing
complexity of national security threats and the vital need to recalibrate the policy making and decision-making
process will require the attention of someone serious.
So, whether Jones stays or goes -- his portfolio will remain vital.
But what is clear is that Jones has enemies and that they are trying to undermine his place in the Obama orbit.
Their motives may not be earnest concern about the tempo or pace of Jones' management style -- but they very
well could be his unwillingness to allow the liberal interventionists inside the Obama administration to have
more than their fair share of power in the Obama decision-making process.
Jones has structured an all views on the table approach to decision making -- quite evident when it comes to
Middle East policy -- and the hawkish/neocon-friendly/Likudist-hugging part of the Obama administration's
foreign policy operation may be engaged in a coup attempt against Jones.
I don't know if he'll survive this latest effort to oust him -- but folks need to know that those "longer knives", on
the whole, do not have pure motives.
-- Steve Clemons directs the foreign policy programs at the New America Foundation and publishes the popular
political blog, The Washington Note
Shop Dell's full line of Laptops now starting at $349! --- 
I addressed this with Lippert when we last had an issue.
Our identified point of contact is Sarah Farnsworth and we talk to her regularly. I will call and find out what happened
but this meeting was confirmed. They are not telling us when things get canceled and I think we need another contact
there if sarah is too overwhelmed. --- 
Shop Dell's full line of Laptops now starting at $349! --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Thursday, June 25, 2009 4:41 PM
Fw: note to S
Fyi - a clas version will come in hard copy in your pouch tonight --- 
Love to. I look forward to it! --- 
Yes. We had Jim raise this with the Greek ambassador yesterday, who told him that they were aware of the situation
and would come back with a report when Jim got to Corfu. --- 
Rich reports that Kurt, Ellen Tauscher and Dan Rooney were confirmed tonight! --- 
I will. Philippe is keeping Solomon informed -- he passed along a readout of Jim's conversation yesterday. --- 
We'll meet you in Arizona. Sounds like you are doing OK. --- 
Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.goy>
Saturday, June 27, 2009 11:55 AM
Fw: Mauritanian President Resigns Peacefully as per Dakar Accords --- 
I will be out of the office June 29 - July 5. For urgent matters, please contact reinesp@state.gov.
Thanks,
Caroline
311 --- 
Adler, Caroline E <AdlerCE@state.goy>
Saturday, June 27, 2009 3:30 PM
Re
Secretary Clinton -
Wow - thank you so much for taking the time to send me
Caroline
It continues to be an honor to work for you. --- 
Not yet. I'll check in with Tom but he expected to hear from Maria this evening.
In other news, one of the major loyalist paramilitaries announced its full disarmament today -- we're getting out a
statement soon.
(We also will have points and background for a Woodward call Monday.) --- 
Maria will see Morales tomorrow. We'll get you a readout shortly after the mtg concludes. --- 
Fyi --- 
I will start calling Matt before small groups to confirm. --- 
 --- 
92 --- 
We just addressed with hrc.
Matt isn't part of the process and said he didn't want to get into this lane, he was filling in for Sarah who is out today.
This is no longer a regular meeting so when it does need to be scheduled lona will add accordingly. --- 
See traffic from bottom up --- 
Update from tom --- 
Just heard from Rich Verma that Brownback has placed a hold on Kurt Campbell until he gets a vote on restoring NK to
the terrorism sponsorship list. I've made sure Steinberg knows.
76 --- 
Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Friday, June 12, 2009 6:53 PM
H; Oscar Flores
wants to come at 8:30am Sunday to see you
Ok?
77 --- 
below. Sid
http://www.guardian.co.uk/politics/2009/jun/12/david-miliband-gordon-brown-labour-leadership/print
The Guardian
David Miliband: Labour is facing the fight of its life
Foreign secretary thought about quitting the government in last week's turmoil
David Miliband expressed his frustration at a lack of vision from the Labour leadership. Photograph: Martin
Godwin
Voters still don't know what Labour and Gordon Brown stand for, David Miliband admits today, as he reveals
how close he came to quitting the government during last week's turmoil at Westminster.
Speaking to the Guardian at the end of 10 extraordinary days, the foreign secretary says the party's high
command was given an "electric shock" by the disastrous European election results, and he urges fellow
ministers to get out and prepare for "the fight of our life".
But Miliband also concedes that he considered following his close friend and ally James Purnell, who resigned
from the government last week and called for the prime minister to stand down.
Miliband said: "I'd made my decision on Thursday. Sometimes you can make your decisions with great
planning and calculation and sometimes you have to make them rather more quickly. James made his decision
in good faith, I made my decision in good faith ... we all have tolive with our decisions."
The Labour party has a settled view of who should be leader, he said. "This divides people who are close and
people feel passionately one way and people feel passionately the other way."
Describing the task now facing Labour, he says: "It could not be more urgent that there is a maximum of 11
months until the next general election, that we got 15% of the vote nationally [last week], that we came second
in Wales and that one in 20 people voted for us. If that does not electric shock us out of our ministerial chairs to
think: 'By God, we have got the fight of our life on our hands because whatever the Tories are they certainly
don't deserve a landslide' — then nothing will."
Miliband has not given a domestic policy interview for nearly nine months since he felt dogged by accusations
that he was manoeuvring for the premiership. He refuses to acknowledge that his decision to back Brown last
week saved the prime minister, saying "it is impossible to tell".
But the foreign secretary feels his loyalty has given him the freedom to speak his mind without his motives
being questioned by anyone in Downing Street.
Miliband betrays frustration at the absence of a clear Labour vision, saying: "We need the message to go out
that we have got the humility to learn about what has gone wrong.
"It is not a masochism strategy. It is about saying what we believe in. It is about clarity, priority, adding up to
purpose. I know what we stand for, I know what our instincts are, but the voters don't. Actually, I know what
Gordon Brown stands for.
"We have a responsibility to make sure that, come the election, [voters] know what Labour stands for. We were
not being listened to, people felt that they had been forgotten, we neither inspired nor reassured."
He calls for cabinet colleagues to show stronger leadership in the battle to restore Labour's fortunes. "We need
to make sure the talents and energies of not just the whole of the cabinet, but the whole of the labour movement
are give n free rein because one in 20 people voted for us. The truth is that we are not automatons. We all have
to get out there."
Asked whether he felt voters had stopped listening to Brown, Miliband said: "He himself has said he has to
build on his strengths and work on his weaknesses. That is a good maxim for all of us. He is someone who
made the right decisions on the biggest issue of the day. We have got a chance to fight with honour and dignity
for what we believe in. The stakes are very high because we know that parties can slump into very dangerous
positions."
Providing what he describes as a route map from the disaster, he said: "Labour first needs a period of
competent, effective, stable government; secondly, we need to reset our political compass so ministers are no
longer locked in their departments, but link their policies to their values; and thirdly, the government has to be
at the cutting edge of policy."
On the issue of political reform, he demands a speeding-up of the pace of political reform, saying it is not a
piece of middle-class frippery. For the first time, he reveals that he now backs the Alternative Vote for the
Commons, saying MPs' legitimacy will be strengthened by being able to say 50% in my constituency voted for
me.
He says the change cannot be made before the general election. He also backs a fresh push on Lords reform,
saying "we have got an agreed blueprint".
He rounded on Tory spending plans, but said Labour would clarify its own intentions before the election. "They
will be credible and clear. We will come to that in an open and honest way."
But he defends delay in setting out these figures, arguing "when you are in the middle of a Tornado it is a bad
time take a forecast".
In an oblique reference to the Damian McBride briefings, he also calls on the media to abandon unattributable
briefings, saying all politicians' spokesmen should be named, or not quoted by media outlets. "The gotcha
culture of politics is not in anyone's interests," he said.
Shop Dell's full line of Laptops now starting at $349! --- 
No news
richard asked you talk to you tonite. --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, June 12, 2009 8:44 PM
Fw: the secretary's speech
See below - this guy who has been doing so much of the work is great - we lose him in aug b/c-
\ want to make sure you meet him !gf he goes. --- 
THE WHITE HOUSE
Office of the Press Secretary
For Immediate Release June 28, 2009
Statement from President on the situation in Honduras
"I am deeply concerned by reports coming out of Honduras regarding the detention and expulsion of President Mel
• Zelaya. As the Organization of American States did on Friday, I call on all political and social actors in Honduras to
respect democratic norms, the rule of law and the tenets of the Inter-American Democratic Charter. Any existing
tensions and disputes must be resolved peacefully through dialogue free from any outside interference."
###
nc --- 
-
RELEASE IN PART
B6 --- 
Will do.
Sullivan, Jacob J <Sullivan.11@state.gov>
Saturday, June 13, 2009 6:50 AM
Re: Startegy memo --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, June 13, 2009 1:36 PM
Fw: B6
Fyi --- 
Why? B/c it reminds you of someone we now and love - aka you? :) --- 
Fyi - iam going to ask her to head up the qddr organization process with and on diplomacy.side
we're looking but will be desi• nated to be second to that person - on develpoment this woman
that jack and I interviewed and maybe if she will and the the advisory groups we discussed. Will fill you in as
we know more by monday --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, June 13, 2009 2:41 PM
Mills, Cheryl D
Fw: Ambassador's Fund for Cultural Preservation
Per your request about ambassadors fund - pat responded yesterday.
Cdm --- 
Most interesting observation of the day, from State:
"A statistical analysis of the data issued by the ministry of interior suggests a perfect linear relationship between votes
received by Ahmadinejad and Mousavi with an r-squared value of 0.9995, a near impossibility in nature.This suggests
that the ballots were never counted or were.abandoned after it was clear Ahmadinejad was going to lose. Statistically, it
is impossible to maintain such a perfect linear relationship consistently through all stages of vote counting. We would
expect variation as the votes were coming in, due to differences expected between the cites and the country side and
hetereogeneity amoung ethnic groups.This to me is the most concrete evidence I have seen"
84 --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, June 28, 2009 12:44 PM
Sullivan, Jacob
Fw: Honduran President Zelaya Reportedly Seized by Armed Forces
Fyi --- 
No, it's only an internal assessment from someone in the Iran Watch Office. Kay added me to their updates so I'm
seeing their internal chit chat.
I have to admit I don't understand statistics enough to gauge it's accuracy, but they are trying to prove the accusation of
egregious fraud. The only other #s are actual vote tallies coming from the Iranian Interior Ministry, showing Mousavi
winning by far - but the #s are unconfirmed.
Since it's after 4am in Tehran, most of the reporting now is focusing on tumult
Nothing is coming from State publicly aside from what you said this afternoon. --- 
Tom and I started working to confirm this afternoon. I've talked to Miguel and once we know for sure we'll pass along. --- 
RELEASE IN
PART B5,B6
B5 --- 
For tonite, I tentatively told usss an 8pm departure from house. Is that ok?
For tomorrow, the mitchell meeting is confirmed for 5pm. So I will confirm doctor for after the mitchell mtg around
615pm. Ok?
IAA --- 
He can do non secure and I will tell them 2. --- 
Spanish FM Moratinos has requested to speak with you today. Tom can give u verbal download but below are basic
points. Let me know if u want us to set up call
Points:
- We condemn the effort to remove Zelaya from office.
- We are working within the OAS and with our regional partners to resolve this situation quickly and in a manner that
restores democratic order.
°- We appreciate the role Spain played in winning quick EU condemnation of the coup attempt.
- Our work is not done. Rebuilding trust among competing political institutions and reducing polarization within
Honduras will take a lot of work. We hope Spain will work with us and the OAS to ensure a restoration of democratic
order that will allow Honduras to carry through with it electoral timetable (presidential vote scheduled for November)
Note from torn:
Aside from the statements issued by the President and the Secretary, we have been working in the OAS Permanent
Council fashioning a consensus resolution mapping out a path forward, reaching out to regional partners ( I have spoken
twice with Salvadoran President Funes, and our Ambassadors have been working with other Central American leaders),
and working within Honduras to limit the damage to Honduras institutions.
;
1ro --- 
I will take you down there, we have to make an appointment Let me know your availability --- 
For sign off --- 
Sullivan, Jacob J <Sullivanil@state.gov>
Monday, June 29, 2009 10:40 PM
H; Mills, Cheryl D
Re: Honduras asks us to co-sponsor GA resolution for tomorrow's session --- 
Zelaya's people. He is addressing the GA tomorrow. I am working it through with Tom and Dan and will send you final
text in am. --- 
Madam sec'y
I understand I missed a call from you while I was at my mechanic this morning. I'll be in the office by 1015 am.
120 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Am so glad to hear frm you/Hi knew this was painful combined with logistics of being a woman--know. How streddful
this must be----the other night the. Senate. Women had dinner anyway---all sent good words. And encouragement. To
a woman theyb all said. Oh my imagine just getting dressed and the. Hair thing. Get your therapy. Get better. The
senate is slogging along health care is starting to sag. --- some days it feels like we are doing the public option off
backof envelope. Call when you can. X.
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld --- 
See Mon B6 --- 
Great you can begin PT- one of the best things in life for broken parts and aching bodies! Agree merger is a positive with good
possibilities. Nice to see you named best cabinet member in Washingtonian since job is so tough and world generally conspires to
make it tougher. Finally getting your whole team on board should help. Will save any issue discussion or thoughts for other than
email. Keep taking care and, hopefully, the only fireworks this weekend will be in American communities.
Wendy R. Sherman
Albright Stonebridge Group*
1101 New York Avenue, NW
Suite 900
Washin on DC 20005
* On June 25, 2009, Stonebridge International and The Albright Group announced their merger, creating the Albright Stonebridge
Group. For the time being, all contact information remains the same. Once we complete the transition, we will inform you of our new
contact details. We appreciate your patience and look forward to continuing our work with you.
sent from Blackberry --- 
