Will give some thought and pass along any names I can think of.
Jm
 --- 

B5
- see b/I
 --- 

According to Woodward, the likely announcement as been delayed till 3 p.m. (Belfast time) due to the need for
additional consultations — between SF and DUP and then DUP with its Assembly and MP caucus. Time of announcement
may be further pushed back. Will keep you informed.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Shaun just called to say matters are held up because Robinson, who is completely committed to resolution, is dealing with
his party, of which a majority but not all are behind him. Shaun wants this information conveyed only to you, kept outside
the system, and he says he'll be in touch. Sid
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

FYI
^
 --- 

Will do. Just returning from Africa AU meetings. Much to report.
Best,
Maria
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

8:10 am ARRIVE State Department
8:15 am WORKING BREAKFAST FOR INVITED MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
9:15 am James Monroe Room, 8th Floor
9:15 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
9:25 am Secretary's Office
9:30 am PHOTOS w/AMBASSADORIAL SEMINAR
9:45 am Treaty Room, 7th Floor
9:50 am DROP BY w/DS STEINBERG AND GREEK ALTERNATE F.M.
10:00 am DIMITRIOS DROUTSAS Secy's Office *Official photo in anteroom preceding.
10:10 am DEPART State Department *En route Virginia
10:30 am ARRIVE Virginia
10:30 am PRIVATE MEETING
12:30 pm Location: Virginia
12:35 pm DEPART Virginia
12:55 pm ARRIVE State Department
I :00pm OFFICE TIME
2:00pm Secretary's Office
2:00pm SECURE CALL w/ISRAELI PM BINYAMIN NETANYAHU
2:15pm Secretary's Office
2:30pm PHONE CALL w/ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER EHUD BARAK
2:45pm Secretary's Office
2:45 pm OFFICE TIME
3:30 pm Secretary's Office
3:30 pm BILATERAL w/I1RAQI VP DR. TARIQ Al-HASHIMI
4:00 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Camera Spray in Treaty Room preceding.
4:00 pm OFFICE TIME
4:45 pm Secretary's Office
4:45 pm THANK YOU TO TEAM COPENHAGEN
5:05 pm Treaty Room
5:15 pm MEETING w/JIM STEINBERG AND PHIL GORDON
5:45 pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
#1
,1#
 --- 

Murtha back in the hospital
By: David Rogers
February 2,2010 10:43 AM EST
Pennsylvania Rep. John Murtha was back in the hospital Tuesday after undergoing gall bladder
surgery last week.
The Virginia Hospital Center in Arlington said that the 77-year-old Democrat was a patient in its
intensive care unit but referred all questions about his condition to his family.
Murtha's congressional office confirmed that he underwent scheduled laparoscopic surgery to remove
his gallbladder at Bethesda Naval Hospital last week. But the congressman's spokesman refused
comment on the seriousness of his condition or any complication that required hospitalization.
A powerhouse in the House Appropriations Committee and close friend of Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-
Calif.), Murtha was hospitalized for a period in December as well when he suffered an infection in his
gall bladder.
The doctors then decided that it should be removed once the infection had been tempered, and that
set up the surgery last week at Bethesda.
In the interim, Murtha has been back in the Capitol, and in his style, came back from the hospital—
with IV bandages still on him— to oversee passage of his defense appropriations bill.
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 

Just faxed it to you. Let me know if you didn't get it. Thanks.
 --- 

Revised draft of prayer breakfast remarks coming in 15 min by fax.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Will call at six - still doing email
 --- 

Good to know
thanks
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

10:30 Lithuanian FM Azubalis (you will have call sheet soon)
10:45 Secretary Gates
11am Tony Blair
11:30 Conference Call on doha speech (also sending paper for you to see before that call)
 --- 

Will call in 10 mins -- getting into work.
 --- 

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA©state.gov>
Thursday, February 11, 2010 9:42 AM
Sullivan, Jacob .J
A few more words on the Dalai Lama
I never heard the earlier part of this debate
We shd not use our meeting w/ the DL to beat them up, but treat it like we would treat a meeting with a Coptic leader
from Egypt or a Bahai leader from Iran, etc. We have nothing to hide. Let the Chinese make a big issue out of it if they
want to; we will just do what we have always done.
AM
 --- 

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA@state.gov>
Thursday, February 11,2010 10:04 AM
Sullivan, Jacob J
One more thought on OAS
One last thought I had is whether it would be worth
AM
 --- 

I just asked Ops if we might be able to talk for a minute before your 10:45 call with Sec Gates. The call is on a different
subject, but the Yemen 1206 package may come up and I wanted to brief you where things stand as of this morning. It
was on his desk for signature yesterday and I asked that it be pulled back so we could work through some last issues
today. I was planning to touch base with you before signing off. Thanks.
 --- 

Yes, we have the video on the list to do by early March.
 --- 

Yes on lithuania video
We will try on moving dates but we have been aware they are set for the 9-11th Will start working on it.
 --- 

I see I'm not the only person who does email while on the phone! ;-)
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Blair's guy said you ok'ed releasing today. If so, we'll pull the trigger. It is pasted below:
Statement by the Secretary
This Administration has, from the beginning, worked to bring about comprehensive peace in the Middle East, including a
two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. On that issue our approach has been three-fold: (1) to help build the
economy and capacity to govern of a Palestinian state; (2) to renew political negotiations to enable the earliest possible
establishment of that state; and (3) to achieve these in a manner that ensures the security of Israel and of the
Palestinians.
Consistent with Prime Minister Fayyad's plan for a future Palestinian state, Tony Blair, as the Quartet representative, will
intensify his partnership with Senator Mitchell in support of the political negotiations. In his role as Quartet
Representative Tony Blair will continue, with full support by and coordination with Senator Mitchell, to mobilize the
efforts of the international community: (1) to build support for the institutional capacity and governance of a future
Palestinian State, including on the rule of law; (2) to improve freedom of movement and access for Palestinians; (3) to
encourage further private sector investment; and (4) to bring change in the living conditions of the people in Gaza.
 --- 

Importance: High
In case cdm didn't share already
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Please know that you and WJC are in my prayers.
I spoke to Ellen tonight, who is preparing a memo and will have it Monday.
Pasted below is a draft letter that our Ambassador plus French and Russians will be working on tomorrow in Vienna,
ideally to deliver to Amano,
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

This relates to the letter from yesterday. FYI prior to call with Kouchner.
 --- 

See the report below: Pinera has announced his support.
I had a long conversation with Craig a little while ago. He spoke with a number of people in Chile, including his close
friend,
According to Craig, Pinera had made the calculation that it would be politically untenable to dump Insulza. Apparently
there is a coalition leadership in the lower house, and Insulza's party, Concertacion, controls the upper house. So he had
no choice.
That said, Craig believes that his clear message had an impact on what Pinera told Insulza. He apparently gave his
support with two conditions: (1) don't interfere in Chilean politics, and (2) take the democratization agenda seriously
and don't carry the ALBA countries' water.
Craig also said that Arturo had been effective in making clear that the jury was out on Insulza in Washington -- that had
an impact on the Pinera government and reinforced their second message to him.
Bottom line: Craig said we couldn't have talked Pinera off of this, but we helped drive a stronger set of conditions on
Pinera's support.
 --- 

I will be traveling today, February 11, returning late Sunday, February 14, with intermittent access to my email. If you
need to reach me urgently please contact Nora Toiv, Toivnf@state.gov, 202-647-8633 or Joanne Laszczych,
laszczychj@state.gov, 202-647-5548.
Thank you!
 --- 

February 12, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

J - can u print for hrc? Latest version of doha speech. I'm sure others will have edits but wanted her to have copy now.
 --- 


 --- 

I have been working harrd - ertharin has been running my ass around. We starting our meetings at 930am after landing
at 830am and we are now just getting down with her dinner party for 40 for Haiti (with ag minister and haiti ambo).
Wouldn't you know it - it snowed for the first time in decades in Rome.
Conf went well - am now hoping tomorrow to shop!
Thank you for the well wishes.
Safe travels.
 --- 

Jake just downloaded with me from your conversation w/ him yesterday re the Interim Report. I just want to reassure
you that I get it completely; you saw a much earlier draft than I would have liked. I'll be working on it all weekend and
we'll make you proud. Have a good trip -- I used to be on the board of thr US-Islamic World Forum and went a couple of
times. AM
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

That's great news! See you tomorrow. I will have a long list to share...
 --- 

I'm sorry I was not able to join last week's meeting on Haiti but I have calls into Anne Marie and Arturo to get an update.
Once I get a better understanding of how we plan to move forward on a regional basis we will work on putting together
a comprehensive PD strategy to support our efforts
If you like the idea I can begin to trial balloon it with media execs in US and LA that I know
personally to gauge their reaction.
Of course we can't rely on a psa campaign alone to sustain the effort so we will develop other PD strategies for
engagement throughout the region which I will forward as they evolve.
Let me know what you think. In the meantime I thought you might be interested in the report below (copy attached as
well) which outlines the results to date of our global media outreach initiative.
Successfully Engaging Global Media
About the U.S. Role and International Cooperation in Haiti
Examples of Post Efforts to Date
EUROPE
• Reinforcing the Secretary's message, U.S. Ambassador to France Rivkin engaged directly
with over 100 journalists in an event streamed live on-line by CNN, where he highlighted
U.S. assistance to Haiti and the cooperation of the US with France, the UN and the
international community. Embassy Paris also reached out to senior officials in the Elysee,
MFA, French media and civil society at all levels to underscore the message of positive
coordination with our French partners and to set the record straight on the work of the USG
in Haiti. As a result, leading French officials dismissed rumors of rising diplomatic tensions
between the two countries. Leading officials consistently praised the work of the Obama
administration in Haiti and the need for a strong US role in the emergency response.
• Embassy London's media blitz featured Ambassador Susman, who underlined the U.S.
commitment to Haiti at an Embassy Martin Luther King Jr. holiday event with actor James
Earl Jones; the event was covered by BBC World News (audience 270 million worldwide)
and various U.K. papers. The Ambassador and the JO also spoke about Haiti on January 20-
22 on BBC TV 2's "Daily Politics Show," BBC Radio, the BBC TV Evening News, and
other media and helped embed an ITV journalist on the USNS Comfort to help balance ITV's
previously negative reporting and reached out personally to BBC producers to call attention
to inaccurate reporting alleging that the U.S. military prevented Medicins Sans Frontiers
from delivering aid and supplies to the airport in Port Au Prince.
• With media coverage growing more critical, U.S. Ambassador to Greece Speckhard gave an
interview to Ta Nea newspaper and DCM Deborah McCarthy, who previously served in
Haiti, was interviewed by Real Sunday newspaper, resulting in positive stories about U.S.
assistance to Haiti. Meanwhile, the PAO spoke with the Director of Elefterotypia, whose
paper has run some of the most misdirected coverage of Haiti, and received a commitment to
run an Embassy-produced story to counteract the misinformation.
AFRICA
• Four African posts — Senegal, Ghana, Nigeria and Tanzania — organized highly successful
outreach programs based on the diversion of the USS Gunston Hall to Haiti. The ship, with
African officers aboard, was headed to western Africa under AFRICOM' s African
Partnership Station maritime security training program when it was diverted to provide relief
to Haiti. With African officers working alongside U.S. military officers to deliver assistance
to Haitians, PAOs at those posts connected local reporters with the ship to conduct live
interviews of the Africans for their home media, resulting in excellent media placement in all
four countries.
• On January 20 U.S. Ambassador to South Africa Gips gave a 10-minute live interview on
Haiti with 5FM, a leading youth station with listenership of approx 800,000. The
Ambassador highlighted the depth and breadth of US support and congratulated South Africa
for sending emergency teams. The radio hosts told the Embassy afterward that e-mails and
SMS messages were pouring into the station in support of U.S. efforts. Ambassador Gips
reached out to additional audiences via broadcast media on January 21 and recorded a
program via the Africa Regional Media Hub with SABC-International TV's "Rendezvous
Africa" program (broadcast across the continent) and live interviews with drive-time radio
programs on two national stations.
• As a result of a press conference hosted by the Embassy on January 22, all major Angolan
media gave positive coverage to U.S. efforts in Haiti, including Radio Nacional de Angola
and the Jornal de Angola newspaper, which ran an editorial January 23 that stated: "We need
to believe and let those on the ground do their work because the old tactics of criticizing who
is doing something for the Haitian People just for the sake of criticizing at a moment like this
is not acceptable. . . Just see the numbers of daily flights that arrive in Haiti to have an idea
and quickly come to the conclusion that the possible failures and omissions do not supersede
the positive and timely work done by the entities undertaking the relief efforts in Haiti."
EAST ASIA-PACIFIC
• The U.S. Ambassador to Indonesia's January 21 byliner on Haiti ran as the lead item on the
editorial page of Sep utar Indonesia daily, and it was subsequently picked up by Antara, the
Indonesian national news agency, and subsequently appeared in most Indonesian media.
• South Korea: Looking to help Korean audiences connect with the situation in Haiti, PA
Seoul arranged a Digital Video Conference with the U.S. Consul in Nagoya, Japan, who had
previously served as Information Officer in Port-au-Prince and was a fluent Korean
speaker. CG Kwak underlined the long tradition of US humanitarian assistance to Haiti as
well as the massive US response to the current crisis and noted Korea's own active
involvement in the relief work. The U.S. Ambassador's blog on January 22, dedicated to the
earthquake and those affected by it, received more than 1,500 hits in three days, with almost
all comments supporting U.S. concerns.
The EAP Regional Media Hub in Tokyo hosted a journalists' roundtable with Gordon Duguid
in Haiti on January 25 that included journalists from Hong Kong's Ming Pao newspaper,
Malaysia's New Straits Times newspaper, BERNAM.A (Malaysian National News Agency),
and Australia's Canberra Times newspaper and Radio 6PR (Perth), and resulted in favorable
stories appearing over the next few days in all participating media.
NEAR EAST
• Lebanon: Television station Al-Jadid is not Hezbollah-affiliated, with most of its funding
coming from the Gulf and Libya. Their coverage is also routinely sensationalistic and
mirrored Al-Manar's coverage. PAS Beirut clarified aspects of USG assistance in Haiti to
Al-Jadid on January 20. On Saturday January 23, Al-Jadid hosted the PAO for 30 minutes
on morning news talk-show al-Hadath to discuss American relief efforts in Haiti. The PAO
was able to address many of the accusations carried in the Al-Manar report, including the
myriad "weapons testing" myths being propagated by Russian and Venezuelan media outlets.
[Post cannot engage directly with Hezbollah television station Al-Manar as it was designated
as a Special Designated Global Terrorist organization in 2006 under E.O. 13224]
• Morocco: On 1/28/10 the nationalist French-language daily L 'Opinion published an op-ed
entitled, "Haiti: After terror, the dread..." The paper is generally considered to be fairly
hostile to the USG, however, on 1/29/10, PAO Rabat and an FSN went to L 'Opinion to
discuss the op-ed. Post was amazed to find the staff, including the writer himself,
accommodating and even apologetic during the meeting. The editor-in-chief immediately
agreed that the piece had been unfair, and the writer somewhat sheepishly explained himself
by saying that public opinion had not quite recovered from "the Bush years," but readily
acknowledged as well that the article was not balanced. PAO gave the writer a dossier of
Washington File articles and some information from Infocentral's regular updates, which he
promised to use in writing a counterpoint article. On 2/1/10, L 'Opinion published an article
entitled, "The massive humanitarian action of the United States," based on the articles
provided by Post. The excellent article underscored the scope of American assistance, both
government and private sector, to aide Haiti's earthquake victims.
• Syria: Syrian state-run media coverage of the USG role in Haiti relief efforts has been
largely negative and inaccurate, portraying the U.S. military as occupying Haiti. Examples
include the Ba'ath party's Al-Baath newspaper publishing three critical articles (1/21/01)
under the headlines: "US Crimes in Haiti," "US Military Forces Tighten Grip on Haiti," and
"US Forces Stop Humanitarian Planes from Landing." On 1/25/10, government-owned
Tishreen published an op-ed claiming that the superpowers were rushing towards a military
conquest of Haiti in order to profit from reconstruction operations, which is the new method
of colonialism. On 1/28/10, DAS Maura Connelly met with Syrian Ambassador Mustafa,
who promised to work to halt the negative coverage coming from some Syrian outlets. To
encourage more balanced coverage, Embassy Damascus will host a roundtable 2/3/10 with
-
journalists from government-owned and independent Syrian media. Post also extended a
personal invitation to an advisor of the Minister of Information.
 --- 

Thought you might be interested in this piece by Joe Nye which I believe validates the new approach we are trying to
implement. We have begun to roll-out the new plan and so far the reaction has been reasonably positive. We have
organized a set of working groups around key initiatives --- women's empowerment; cve; expanded English language
training; cultural programming; youth; climate change; etc so that we can incorporate new proposals into FY2012
budget and re-direct FY 2010 and 2011 funds wherever possible and appropriate. The working groups are being chaired
by senior level officers from the regional bureaus --- Bob Blake; Craig Kelly, etc. --- and are being asked to report back
within 4 to 6 weeks. I'll continue to keep you posted as things move forward.
The New Public Diplomacy
Joseph S. Nye
2010-02-10
CAMBRIDGE — The world of traditional power politics was typically about whose military or economy would
win. In today's information age, politics is also about whose "story" wins.
National narratives are, indeed, a type of currency. Governments compete with each other and with other
organizations to enhance their own credibility and weaken that of their opponents. Witness the contest between
the government and protesters after the Iranian elections in June 2009, in which the Internet and Twitter played
crucial roles, or the recent controversy between Google and China.
Reputation has always mattered in world politics, but credibility has become crucial because of a "paradox of
plenty." When information is plentiful, the scarce resource is attention. Under the new conditions, a soft sell
may, more than ever, prove more effective than a hard sell.
For example, the relative independence of the BBC, sometimes a source of consternation to British
governments, has paid rich dividends in credibility, as illustrated by this account of Tanzanian President Jakaya
Kikwete's day: "he rises at dawn, listens to the BBC World Service, then scans the Tanzanian press."
Skeptics who treat the term "public diplomacy" as a mere euphemism for propaganda miss the point. Simple
propaganda is counterproductive as public diplomacy. Nor is public diplomacy merely a public-relations
campaign. Public diplomacy also involves building long-term relationships that create an enabling environment
for government policies.
The contribution of direct government information to long-term cultural relationships varies with three
dimensions or stages of public diplomacy, and all three are important. The first and most immediate dimension
is daily communications, which involves explaining the context of domestic and foreign-policy decisions. This
dimension also involves preparation for dealing with crises. If there is a vacuum in information after an event,
others will rush in to fill it.
The second dimension is strategic communication, which develops a set of simple themes, much as a political
or advertising campaign does. While the first dimension is measured in hours and days, the second occurs over
weeks, months, and even years.
The third dimension of public diplomacy is the development of lasting relationships with key individuals over
many years or even decades, through scholarships, exchanges, training, seminars, conferences, and access to
media channels. These programs develop what the American journalist Edward R. Murrow once called the
crucial "last three feet" — face-to-face communications, with the enhanced credibility that reciprocity creates.
But even the best advertising cannot sell an unpopular product. A communications strategy cannot work if it
cuts against the grain of policy. Actions speak louder than words. All too often, policymakers treat public
diplomacy as a bandage that can be applied after damage is done by other instruments. For example, China tried
to enhance its soft power by successfully staging the 2008 Olympics, but its domestic simultaneous crackdown
in Tibet — and subsequent repression in Xinxiang and arrests of human rights lawyers — undercut its gains.
Great powers try to use culture and narrative to create soft power that promotes their advantage, but they do not
always understand how to do it. Critics in the United States complain that the over-militarization of foreign
policy undercuts its credibility. Instead, they advocate diplomacy "on steroids," staffed by diplomats trained in
new media, cross-cultural communications, granular local knowledge, and networks of contacts with under-
represented groups.
The centralized mass-media approach to public diplomacy still plays an important role. Governments need to
correct daily misrepresentations of their policies, as well as to try to convey a longer-term strategic message.
The main strength of the mass-media approach is its audience reach and ability to generate public awareness
and set the agenda. But its weakness is its inability to influence how the message is perceived in different
cultural settings. The sender knows what she says, but not always what the targets hear. Cultural barriers are apt
to distort what is heard.
Networked communications, on the other hand, can take advantage of two-way communications and peer-to-
peer relations to overcome cultural differences. This type of decentralization and flexibility is difficult for
governments to accomplish, given their central accountability structures.
The greater flexibility of non-governmental organizations in using networks has given rise to what some call
"the new public diplomacy," which is no longer confined to messaging, promotion campaigns, or even direct
governmental contacts with foreign publics serving foreign-policy purposes. It is also about building
relationships with civil-society actors in other countries and facilitating networks between non-governmental
parties at home and abroad.
In this approach to public diplomacy, government policy is aimed at promoting and participating in, rather than
controlling, such cross-border networks. Indeed, too much government control, or even the appearance of it, can
undercut the credibility that such networks are designed to engender. The evolution of public diplomacy from
one-way communications to a two-way dialogue treats publics as co-creators of meaning and communication.
Power in a global information age, more than ever, will include a soft dimension of attraction as well as the hard
dimensions of coercion and payment. Combining these dimensions effectively is called "smart power." For
-
example, the current struggle against transnational terrorism is a struggle over winning hearts and minds, and
over-reliance on hard power alone is not the path to success.
Public diplomacy is an important tool in the arsenal of smart power, but smart public diplomacy requires an
understanding of credibility, self-criticism, and the role of civil society in generating soft power. If it
degenerates into propaganda, public diplomacy not only fails to convince, but can undercut soft power. Instead,
it must remain a two-way process, because soft power depends, first and foremost, upon understanding the
minds of others.
 --- 

Yes. I am in all next week. 191 work with Lona to set up a time to meet.
im
 --- 

Mikulski, BAM (Mikulski) <BAM@Mikulski.senate.gov>
Saturday, February 13, 2010 9:55 AM
H
Re: Thinking
You are desparately needed
$$raisers---- did you know I've hired mandy as my media person— yes up for re elect. I'm going to go again. Like so
many of this want to make this presidency and our country work again.
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
 --- 

I am on official travel until mid-day on 2/19. I will check messages by Blackberry as frequently as possible.
 --- 

H: FYI. This story headlined the Huffington Post, has more hits and comments than any other piece, and is the number
one story on blogs across the web right now. Paul is a researcher at the Sunlight Foundation. Politico, Wash Post and
NYT have belatedly followed up on Paul's story but lack a lot of his reporting. Sid
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/paul-blumenthal/the-legacy-of-billy-tauzi_b_460358.htmlou
Paul E3lurnenth*i
http://wvvw.huffingtonpost.com/paul-blumenthal/the-legacy-of-billy-tauzi_b_460358.html
Posted: February 12, 2010 01:28 PM
B)0
LIIM7
, 27 It¦ IVC
,
•11
e
ty
a "11......
, ux.straxte rraulaut....r ' a
e house
anrtt i tn.turn scs7.,...—scemaaLean
For more research like this, visit the Sunt,sgPt Fooriciatico's clog.
More than a million spectators gathered before the Capitol on a frosty January afternoon to witness the inauguration of
Barad< Obama, who promised in his campaign to change Washington's mercenary culture of lobbyists, special interest
influence and backroom deals. But within a few months of being sworn in, the President and his top aides were sitting
down with leaders from the pharmaceutical industry to hash out a deal that they thought would make health care reform
possible.
Over the following months, pharmaceutical industry lobbyists and executives met with top White House aides dozens of
times to hammer out a deal that would secure industry support for the administration's health care reform agenda in
exchange for the White House abandoning key elements of the president's promises to reform the pharmaceutical
industry. They flooded Congress with campaign contributions, and hired dozens of former Capitol Hill insiders to push
their case. How they did it--pieced together from news accounts, disclosure forms including lobbying reports and Federal
Election Commission records, White House visitor logs and the sghedu! ..S,:::in. Max,Baucus releases yoiun:tarily--is a
testament to how ingrained the grip of special interests remains in Washington.
In the 2008 campaign, Obama declared his intention to include all stakeholders as he sought to reform the nation's health
care system, but also supported key qemocr.atic health reform uok,
sies. Among these were several that targeted the
pharmaceutical industry: Allowing re-importation of drugs from first world countries with lower drug prices and providing
Medicare with negotiating authority over prescription drug prices in the recently enacted Part D program. These weren't
just promises, Obama had already voted for both of them as a senator in 2007. (Rdl Call Vote 132 and Roll call Vo.t.c.-)
150.)
Set to carry out this agenda were two Capitol Hill veterans, schooled in the monied Washington culture, chief of staff
Rahm Emanuel and deputy chief of staff Jim Messina. Emanuel was a former fundraiser, Clinton administration official,
investment banker and member of the Democratic leadership in Congress. Messina was the former campaign manager
B6
and chief of staff to the powerful Senate Finance Committee chairman Max Baucus. Both were known for their
unparalleled legislative abilities.
Because of Obama's decision to develop a plan operating through the legislative process, members of Congress also
played key roles. Early on, the pharmaceutical companies were told to deal directly with Senate Finance Committee
chairman Max Bpuf.
-4:s. Baucus would be the vehicle for the deal worked out behind the scenes by the White House and
PhRMA.
Central to this effort was PhRMA president, CEO and top lobbyist Billy Tauzin, a longtime Democratic member of
Congress who switched party affiliations after Republicans gained control of Congress in 1994. By switching parties
Tauzin was able to maintain his influence and even rose to be Chairman of the House Committee on Energy &
Commerce. Tauzin became the poster child of Washington's mercenary culture. He crafted a bill to provide prescription
drug access to Medicare recipients, one that provided major concessions to the pharmaceutical industry. Medicare would
not be able to negotiate for lower prescription drug costs and reimportation of drugs from first world countries would not be
allowed. A few months after the bill passed, Tauzin announced that he was retiring from Congress and would be taking a
job helming PhRMA for a salary of $2 million.
Tauzin's job change became fodder for a campaign ad that then presidential candidate Barack Obama ran in the spring of
2008 simply titled ".Biliy." It featured the candidate, sleeves rolled up, talking to a salon of gasping Americans about the
ways of Washington. "The pharmaceutical industry wrote into the prescription drug plan that Medicare could not negotiate
with drug companies. And you know what, the chairman of the committee, who pushed the law through, went to work for
the pharmaceutical industry making $2 million a year." The screen fades to black to inform the viewer that, "Barack
Obama is the only candidate who refuses Washington lobbyist money," while the candidate continues his lecture,
"Imagine that. That's an example of the same old game playing in Washington. You know, I don't want to learn how to
play the game better, I want to put an end to the game playing."
Aiding PhRMA in their outreach to Congress would be a squadron of lobbyists to push their health care reform priorities.
Over the course of 2009, the drug industry trade group sdeft:tow::!i: _ 520 tniliion on in house and hired lobbyists. Aside from
PhRMA's massive in-house lobbying operation, the trade group hired 48 outside lobbying firms. The total number of
lobbyists working for PhRMA in 2009 reached 165. Some 137 of those 165 lobbyists representing PhRMA were former
employees of either the legislative or executive branches. Of these dozens were former congressional staffers including
two former chiefs of staff to Max Baucus.
According to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, drug makers coptr.ibu¦ed sums to ....:ongressional
ecii-om.lttee.s during the same period--from January to the end of October (4thquarter numbers are still being
totaled), industry political action committees, employees and their family members flooded lawmakers with over $8 million.
Those contributions tilted heavily to Democrats over Republicans by a 57 to 42 percent margin--the first time in any
election cycle going back to 1990, the first year that the Center for Responsive Politics began tracking industry giving, that
Democrats were so favored. Given their majorities on Capitol Hill, and the new President's intention to reform America's
health care system, the new tilt was perhaps not surprising.
On March 5, the White House a Tee.tiilfa....ivitfi.rnnic!r_nealth care induLd.er.s to try to bring them to the table and
see what could be done to gain their support. In attendance were Billy Tauzin, president, CEO and top lobbyist for
PhRMA, Pfizer CEO Jeff Kindler, America's Health Care Plans (AHIP) Chairman Karen lgnani, Tom Donohue of the
Chamber of Commerce and Robert Wood Johnson Foundations' Rise Lavizzomourey. A day before the White House
meeting Tauzin 31)12.7.a_f;=¦.:4_1
.7...-1 Ci\IF:
.
.lc touting health care reform and promising to work closely with the Obama
administration. In the interview he touted it as an "optimistic plan", acknowledging that the industry did have a few
problems but was glad to have a chance to discuss these. Spme were duri?0,7rognnd,,
,td by this apparent change of
heart on behalf of an industry long adverse to health care reforms.
On April 15, Jim Messina and Jon Selib, chief of staff to Senate Finance Committee chairman Max Baucus, convened a
meeting at the headquarters of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC) with leaders of organized labor
and health care groups, including PhRMA. At the meeting, the groups decided to form two nonprofit entities to promote
reform efforts, Healthy Economy Now and Americans for Stable Quality Care, that would be almost entftelv funoed pj
.
PhRMA. The two groups spent $24 million on their advertising campaigns; the contract to produce and place ads went to
White House Senior Advisor David AKPD, which owed Axelrod $2 million.
In the next month, CEO's from pharmaceutical companies would meet with Baucus and administration officials at least
four times. These talks preceded a major public event at the White House, one critical to its strategy to promote health
care reform. On May 11, PhRMA and other trade industry groups piedaed cost ,
..-v_itting_measures to the White House that
would save, they claimed, upwards of $2 trillion over the next decade. President Obama announced the deal in the State
Dining Room, flanked by leaders of the various trade groups; the administration followed up with a media blitz in the press
and on the White House Web site.
The next day, Healthy Economy Now's PhRMA funded ad campaign ran their first advertisement in support of the health
care reform process calling for the government to finally "fix" the nation's health care cost problems. While many elements
of the $2 trillion cost cutting pledge fell apart, the drug industry remained committed to the process in the hopes that they
could ultimately win out and defeat the provisions they most feared in closed-door meetings with the White House:
The first occurred on June 2. White House visitor logs show PhRMA's top executives, including Tauzin, and industry
CEOs met with Sarah Fenn from the White House Office of Health Care Reform. On the same day, the publicly available
schedule of Senator Max Baucus shows Tauzin and the same industry CEOs met the Senate Finance Committee
chairman. What ultimately resulted from these coordinated meetings would be revealed by Baucus on June 20.
In a press release featuring a statement by Tauzin, Baucus revealed that the pharmaceutical industry had accepted $80
billion in cost cutting measures to be included in the Senate Finance Committee version of the bill. According to news
re_gorts, Baucus initially proposed $100 billion in cost cutting measures, but the executives and lobbyists meeting on June
2 were able to win the lower figure.
The terms of the initial cost-cutting deal included $30 billion go directly towards closing the "donut hole" in Medicare
prescription drug coverage. The "donut hole" is a term for the gap in coverage that occurs within the Medicare prescription
drug coverage. For those purchasing prescription drugs through the Medicare program coverage cuts off at $2,700 spent
and does not pick back up again until $6,154 is spent by the participant. The amount proposed in the deal; 50 percent
coverage for drugs within the coverage gap, however, would not completely close the "donut hole."
In Baucus' press release, Tauzin is quoted as saying, "This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and, working together, we
can make this hope for a better tomorrow a reality today." This "once-in-a-lifetime" opportunity also extended to the
pharmaceutical industry's ability to blunt the long-term Democratic agenda of lowering prescription drug prices through
Medicare negotiations, re-importation and quicker release of generics onto the market. After making such a grand
statement of support through cost cutting proposals it was time for the pharmaceutical industry to finally force the White
House and Democrats to take certain chips off the table.
Baucus proceeded with a_pia,n c.c)r
.ivene.a bicartisap rimuo in an effort to craft the bill desired by the White House.
These participants included Democrats Kent Conrad and Jeff Bingaman and Republicans Chuck Grassley, Mike Enzi and
Olympia Snowe. Baucus' decision and the need to solidify deals with groups like the pharmaceutical industry - which were
reliant on Baucus producing a bill - slowed down the legislative process making it impossible for Congress to meet the
White House's announced iltuouet reces§ dee&rie for passing health care reform.
Soon after, PhRMA's big guns and industry lobbyists paid the White House another visit on July 7 and this time met with
Rehm Emanuel and Jim Messina (Baucus' chief of staff Jon Selib is also listed in White House visitor logs for this
meeting). In August, The Huffirytorj. !Dosi',.
--; Ryan Grim reported on an internal memo that was drafted at that meeting that
outlined the policies that would not be allowed into any final version of health care reform. These included Medicare
prescription drug negotiations, drug re-importation, and the lowering of prices for drugs available through Medicare Part D
and Part B. The deal would be $80 billion in cost cutting and absolutely no more.
***
While the $80 billion deal was cut with Baucus' committee, other congressional committees continued to mark-up their
own versions of health care reform without the knowledge that the White House was relying on Baucus to produce the
final product. In the House of Representatives, the House Energy & Commerce Committee leveled a direct threat to the
$80 billion deal. Energy & Commerce Chair Henry Waxman sought to include all of the provisions that PhRMA had gotten
the White House and Baucus to cut out of the reform bill. These included drug reimportation. Medicare negotiating power
and speedier release of generics to the market. According to previous analysis of the measures proposed by the
committee, these measures would have totaled hundreds of billions in cost cuts, far exceeding the $80 billion cap agreed
to by the White House, Baucus and PhRMA.
The cost cutting measures passed in the Energy & Commerce bill spooked the board of PhRMA, which included all of the
CEOs involved in the deal-cutting meetings with the White House and Baucus. The board pressured Tauzin to go public
with the deal to ensure that the White House would recognize it and not renege. On August 4, the Los Ancg•3les•Firrief-
,
-
:, in
an exclusive report, featured quotes from Tauzin claiming that a deal between the White House and PhRMA existed and
that, as Tauzin put it, "The White House blessed it." Tom Hamburger wrote in the article, "For his part, Tauzin said he had
not only received the White House pledge to forswear Medicare drug price bargaining, but also a separate promise not to
pursue another proposal Obama supported during the campaign: importing cheaper drugs from Canada or Europe."
The White House's Jim Messina later confirmed Tauzin's claim, stating, "The president encouraged this approach ... He
wanted to bring all the parties to the table to discuss health insurance reform."
Democratic lawmakers were furious. Rep. Raul Grijaiva, chairman of the Progressive Caucus, asked, "Are industry groups
going to be the ones at the table who get the first big piece of the pie and we just fight over the crust?"
***
On September 7, Baucus' bill made a private circulation on the Hill; pharmaceutical industry cost-cutting did not exceed
$80 billion. Five days later, the New York :limes reported that PhRMA planned to spend up to $150 million in an
advertising blitz in support of Baucus' bill. The Times noted that the ad spending "...would be a follow-up to the deal that
drug makers struck in June with Mr. Baucus and the White House." On September 16, Baucus released the full text of his
les.j
.islation to the public. t
The White House, PhRMA and Baucus still had to fight a few battles to keep the deal intact. The key amendment
targeting the PhRMA deal in committee mark-up came from Sen. Bill Nelson from Florida, which has one of the largest
Medicare participant populations in the nation. The pull of constituent needs clearly put Bill Nelson into a position to push
for further cost cutting in Medicare prescription drug pricing. His target: closing the "donut hole" completely.
Nelson claimed that his amendment would onerate $106 billion in revenue, or from PhRMA's perspective increase their
cost-cutting to $186 billion. That would be unacceptable to PhRMA, to Baucus, to the White House and to the
pharmaceutical industry who had made the deal. Other Senate Democrats, Tom Carper and Robert Menendez voted with
Republicans and Baucus on the committee to defeat the amendment. It is little surprise the Carper's Delaware is home to
AstraZeneca and Menendez' New Jersey is home to Merck and Bristol-Myers-Squibb, all of which lobbied for the $80
billion cap.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid introduced the final bill, with the cap in place, on November 19. Debate began on Dec.
3, and with it come one more attempt by members to change the terms of the deal. Senator Byron Dorgan introduced an
amendment that would allow for drug re-importation, but as the date for voting drew near, the Federal Drug Administration
(FDA) released a letter objecting to the proposal that echoed pharmaceutical industry talking points: "...as currently
written, the resulting structure would be logistically challenging to implement and resource intensive. In addition, there are
significant safety concerns." Dorgan's amendment was defeated with numerous Democrats previously in support of
reimportation switching to "no" votes.
On Christmas Eve, the bill passed the Senate with the PhRMA deal fully intact.
***
New Year's Eve passed with no further action on health care reform. Public opinion regarding the health care reform bill
had been slipping throughout 2009. It reached a fulcrum in the special election to replace the deceased senator Ted
Kennedy in Massachusetts on January 19, 2010. Newly minted senator Scott Brown campaigned that he would be the
senator to provide Republicans with the votes to filibuster the final health care reform bill. Democrats ran for cover.
Despite having the largest majorities of any party since the 1970s, Democrats put the brakes on their agenda, particularly
health care reform.
in the end, the pharmaceutical industry's support for health care reform would be left up in the air. After spending $100
million in advertising in support of legislation that Tauzin and key executives hoped would be a windfall for the
pharmaceutical industry, the legislative process had flat-lined. In February, the board of PhRMA, split over the deal cut by
Tauzin, pushedjauzin to_res
..i
.s., his .post.
In an interview with Diane Sawvqf., President Obama owed up to failures in the process of passing health care reform,
"[The health care debate as it unfolded legitimately raised concerns not just among my opponents, but also amongst
supporters that we just don't know what's going on ... And it's an ugly process and it looks like there are a bunch of back
room deals."
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:25 AM
also...
H: Steve Clemons called me last night to talk about this, which he's just posted on his website. Ed Luce of the FT of
course told him. Also, Clemons had dinner this week with Petraeus, who freely talked about running for president. Sid
John Podesta on Obama team. I am hearing that Financial Times Washington Bureau Chief Edward Luca has a pretty
significant interview with Center for American Progress President and former White House Chief of Staff Jahn ?od.esta
coming out on Monday. Luce recently did a video intervjew 'with Senator john,Mc
fCain. One source tells me that Podesta
"goes farther" in his critique of the Obama team than his already pretty direct comments in Luce's recent survey of the
Obama White House's inner workings.
 --- 

Cherie Blair
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:30 AM
RE: Get well soon
B6
I AM SO GLAD. If you get a chance remind Sheikha Mosa of me as I am wanting her to support my woman's foundation
so every little reminder helps!
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:30 AM
Re: H: FYI, you might want to read this one. Sid
His father learned about the piece only after its publication, another point of pride.
 --- 

Cherie Blair
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:31 AM
RE: Get well soon
We are all in Oman!
 --- 

Cherie Blair
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:34 AM
RE: Get well soon
RELEASE IN PART
B6
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:36 AM
Re: also...
Clemons posted this piece on his dinner with Petraeus, (it's replete with a lot of punditry), but he told me more detail about
his attitude and interest. Among other things, Petraeus recounted a joke about Gates' speech at the Alfalfa Club dinner
that Petraeus couldn't be there because he was in Iowa. Petraeus didn't tell that story to disdain the possibility. He smiled
and watched closely for reaction from others. S
February 13, 2010
Steve Cemons
Publisher of "The Washington Note"
../T1 • "
Pt r:1:°' t
„, •. N (1 :(1 Jr) F*
az.,-.1,--anrac,sounga.awarnrmacta=ava-,_rmuacartatmott--=-0....
-rmaamaxatiAmasm...u.cnromar........,...r.nocura-
-uarni.m.rarcnt.r.trnmar.rarti:4.3resecono....riatvars:
I recently had the opportunity to participate in a small dinner with CENTCOM Commander .
General David Petraeus and his wife Holly. These sorts of discussions are nearly always off the record -- but the fact that
they happened is not off limits.
Petraeus was not in uniform but rather wore what looked to me to be a brand new, perfectly tailored dark suit. I joked to
him that if I Twilt.-
-s
,rgc, that out of two dozen or so times I had seen Petraeus that this was the first time I'd seen him out of
uniform, an ice cold shudder of fear would spread quickly through some political circles in DC.
In August of 2007, I wroteoiece, stating that folks should keep an eye out for the possibility that General Petraeus might
run for President in 2012. In April 2008, Steven Lee Myers wrote a solid New York Times follow up titled "The
General" referencing my earlier take.
Recently, legendary newsman Ai:nai4d de 13orchgave resuscitated the topic of an Eisenhoweresque future for the
counterinsurgency guru in his piece, "President ?etraeus7"
Petraeus was recently named as one of Foreign Policy magazine's tip 100 ttzal thinkers, and as U.S. News & World
Reports "Washington Whispers" notes, he is going to be speaking in May 2010 at the annual American Enterprise
Institute dinner receiving the Irving Kristol Award.
In January 2010, Public Policy Pollin.q revealed that while Obama held a ten point lead over a potential wild card race
against Petraeus, the General had some strengths. But the pollsters also noted that many in the American public just
didn't know enough yet about Petraeus to form an opinion:
Finally our blog readers voted for David Petraeus as our wild card Republican this month and his
numbers come out as a mixed bag. He has the largest deficit against Obama, trailing 44-34. But at +13
his net favorability is better than the President or any of the other Republicans we tested. The problem for
him is that the numbers break down 25/12- 63% of voters in the country don't know enough about him to
have formed an opinion. Who knows if Petraeus would actually have any interest in going into politics, but
if he did he would be introducing himself to many voters for the first time.
President Obama himself, according to what some of his aides have reported to me, is quite taken with David Petraeus
and respects his approach and thinking.
Petraeus has also been respectful of the President -- although when pushed at a recent forum about how he might react
to a Presidential decision on Afghanistan that the General might not have liked, Petraeus offered a cryptic rather than
clear response. (see above video)
At the "First Draft of History" meeting sponsored by the Atlantic Monthly/Atlantic Media Group, the Newseum, and the
Aspen Institute; Petraeus when asked if he would support the President no matter what the result of the strategic review
on Afghanistan responded that he "would continue to give the President the best professional military advice he could."
Contrast that with Defense Secretary Robert Gates resoonOinato_the..saest.ipr
.j., "We will salute and execute [the
President's] decisions faithfully and to the best of our ability."
But after spending an evening with General Petraeus and watching him closely for a number of years, there is no way that
this intelligent leader -- with whom I have some disagreements but respect -- could be comfortable with the Tea Party
takeover of the Republican political machine.
There is always the possibility that a core of reasonable Republicans like Michael Bloomberg, James Baker, Olympia
Snowe, Chuck Hegel, Alan Simpson, John Whitehead, Peter Peterson, Rita Hauser and others will try to rekindle classic
Republican sensibilities by fighting to re-hijack their party back in an Eisenhower-like campaign with Petraeus at the lead.
Remember that Eisenhower clinched the Republican nomination by promising to be the President who though he knew
war would end the Korean War. Petraeus knows Afghanistan and Iraq -- and though it seems hard to envision today could
be the kind of leader promising to end those wars if Obama proves unable to do so.
But there is another option that intrigues me and seems more realistic than imagining the iconic David Petraeus running
for President -- and that is his running for Vice President.
I think Vice President Joe Biden has done an outstanding job and of all the big guns in the Obama White House, Biden
has done the best job of outperforming expectations. He had given President Obama much needed counsel, not always
taken regrettably, but counsel that Obama needed to show the American public he was getting. Biden has been the key
agent behind the scenes in moving Iraq's elections forward. He has scored a lot of wins -- not reported -- in the
nuclear/WMD controls arena. Biden has worked with Gates in stabilizing an awkward and complex relationship with
Russia -- and his counterpoints on the Afghanistan surge, in my view, remain compelling.
But Biden is going to have to find a way to hold his spot in 2012 because others are going to be gunning for it.
As I look at it now, Hillary Clinton who has now said that she will not do more than one term as Secretary of State would
be a natural candidate for the Obama VP slot. Her franchise is not completely in the control of the Obama team yet, but
moving Hillary closer to the White House (although her private home on Whitehaven Street is actually a couple of hundred
feet closer to the White House than the VP residence at the Naval Observatory) would finalize Obarna's takeover of all the
key political franchises in the Democratic Party -- starting with Daley's machine, Deschle's machine, Kennedy's machine,
Edwards' machine, and then the Clintons'.
But General David Petraeus, in his business suit, lurks out there. Obama seems to be concerned about looking like he is
weak on national security. The Republicans -- at Cheney's constant goading (and now Sarah Palin's) -- seem to want to
continue to play politics through fear-mongering.
Obama could neutralize the possibility that he faces a Republican party challenge by David Petraeus by inviting the
General on to the 2012 ticket as a Democrat.
Crazy? Perhaps.
But inviting potential rivals into his tent is becoming a standard Obama trademark -- much as he did by appointing
Republican Governor of Utah and former G.W. Bush administration Deputy US Trade Representative Jon Huntsman, Jr.
to serve as US Ambassador to the People's Republic of China.
And get this, we have just learned that David Petraeus has not voted since 2002 -- not because he doesn't care to vote --
but reportedly because he wants to keep his eventual political options and political loyalties open.
This is a soldier for whom all options are on the table and who is keeping his powder dry.
My hunch is that whether Obama sticks with Vice President Biden or pivots to someone else, Petraeus will be on the short
list of those considered.
-- Steve Clemons publishes the popular political blog, The Washington Note.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:41 AM
Re: also...
yes, Luce will publish on Monday. Clemons runs the foreign policy program at New America Foundation, a character
around town, very busy, gossipy, gay, friend of Laurie Rubiner (from her NAF days), former moderate Republican, funded
in part by Bernard Schwartz, foreign policy realist, and who began his career as a walker of Hollywood wives.
 --- 

Greg Craig had confided in Clemons his version of what happened to him. I'll tell you when you return from your trip.
 --- 

Madam Secretary, Tamara Wittes and Alex Djerassi from NEA have been working with Megan this morning on what we
in NEA, at least (and obviously we defer to you!), see as the real opportunity of the speech: to lay out a simple theme
about Cairo that has somehow gotten lost --
Jeffrey Feltman
Assistant Secretary
Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs
Department of State
202-647-7209
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Saturday, February 13, 2010 12:42 PM
H
FW: Doha speech
Megan had a long, and I think productive, conversation with Judith about the speech this morning. You are absolutely
right on the tone, and Judith helped Megan work through adjustments
I just spoke with Megan, who is now taking another turn through it.
 --- 

Yes -- in the draft they received, violent extremism came first They
also gave comments on how to frame the Middle East portion -- Megan is working that. And they had a number of
specific edits on phraseology and the like.
 --- 

In keeping w/ email I sent you re my conversation w/ robert wexler and danny abraham, this speech is doing exactly what
is needed on our side. To encourage KSA and others to respond, however,
 --- 

Funny you mention it -- nearly everyone who has given comments on the speech has tried their hand at "improving" that
paragraph (usually reflecting their own notions of what the endstate should look like), not recognizing that it is sacred
language. We're protecting it.
 --- 

Yes
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Saturday, February 13, 2010 9:28 PM
Huma Abedin; H
Re: hi huma/
About to land in shannon. Will call soon.
 --- 

I think I mentioned to you that Carols Pascual has asked me to work with him on a public awareness campaign targeting
the Mexican public and designed to maintain support for the campaign against the drug cartels. The attached article,
which he wrote, addresses this issue. I have approached Keith Reinhard at Business for Diplomatic Action to work with
us on this matter. Keith thinks he can organize a US/Mexican creative coalition to work on it. Might be an interesting
model for Haiti if it works here.
Hope the trip is going well.
JM
 --- 

...Are asking about what the mounting evidence is that Iran is building toward a bomb. They are taking it as a little
different from previous formulations.
We're saying Qom, 20 pct enrichment, refusal on TRR, etc.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, February 14, 2010 3:20 PM
H: FYI. The end of Justice Jim. Sid
Supreme Court Justice Jim Johnson, known both for his segregationist political activities in the 1950s and dabbling in
the political campaign against Bill Clinton during his presidency, died yesterday.
A Faulkner County sheriffs office spokesman, Lt. Matt Rice, said Johnson was found dead in his home about 10 a.m.
Saturday with an apparently self-inflicted chest wound from a .30-30 rifle. Johnson had been beset by medical
problems, he said. Roller-McNutt Funeral Home in Conway will be handling arrangements.
He was 85. Here's a standat biographica: hstory. This will end his prolific and pointed letters to the editor (unless some
are still in the pipeline), delivered on stationery marked with his name for his Conway home, "White Haven."
Justice Jim was a courtly man and lively company, gracious in social interaction with friend and political foe. But Mark
Anthony's words in Julius Caesar about men's deeds come, unavoidably, to mind. As recently as 1990, he worked in an
effort to preserve state Amendment 44, the states rights amendment aimed at curbing integration that was his brainchild.
It had long been declared unconstitutional by federal courts and was barely repealed by voters.
 --- 

Cole
Lee
Chandler
Stearns
Hastings
Whitfield
Ryan
Edwards
 --- 

What a sad ending to the tale.
 --- 

I was holding the 4pm but all flights look good as of this afternoon.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Monday, February 15, 2010 2:37 PM
Re: H: FYI. The end of Justice Jim. Sid
I thought your designation of Iran as a near military government was very good. Gary Sick has been arguing that it is in
fact a military government. Of course this is predicate for targeted sanctions. There is a consistent thread in the
challenges we face from a host of authoritarian (and totalitarian) military governments, sometimes loosely allied on an ad
hoc basis--Iran, China, Myanmar, Venezuela, Cuba. This is nothing like the Cold War, but it's an idea worth exploring, not
publicly discussing, but thinking about.
On Justice Jim, a couple of thoughts: I wish his tragic end were as politically conclusive as that of Edmund Ruffin, the
Southern fire-eater and secessionist who was given the honor of firing the first shot at Fort Sumter and upon hearing of
Appomattox carefully sat himself down in his grand Charleston house and blew his brains out with a shotgun.
Unfortunately, the evil Justice Jim did lives on--in the wild bigotry against Obama and even through the Supreme Court
decision in the case of Citizens United, a group he helped galvanize to circulate the Whitewater hoax.
Sid
 --- 

You still up?
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Monday, February 15, 2010 6:57 PM
Podesta
Podesta: W.H. 'lost' health
narrative
By: AH!,
February 15, 2010 03:03 PM
EST
John Podesta, the president of the
Center for American Progress who
led Barack Obama's presidential
transition, acknowledges the White
House has been unable to
successfully drive the debate on
health care reform.
"They lost the narrative," Podesta
told the Financial Times. "They lost
the perspective of how all of the
activity they were engaged in was
knit together."
In a video interview posted on the
newspaper's website Monday,
Podesta also bemoaned the
present political climate in
Washington and expressed
frustration with inability of the White
House and Congress to advance
the president's agenda.
"Change is hard in America. We've
all learned that over the last year,"
said the former White House chief
of staff under Bill Clinton. "There is
real frustration amongst
independent voters, and anger
amongst independent voters."
Voters have become discouraged,
Podesta said, by seeing "no spirit in
which people were having a
reasonable conversation" during the
health care debate and from "the
last twist and turns on health care,
the special deals that had to be
made in the Senate to get the 60
votes."
Asked how he would rate the health
of the American political system, he
responded simply: "Sucks."
"It feels like a very frustrated
country, a country frustrated with
the inability of Washington to do
anything to get the economy going
again, to get jobs going again," he
said. "And I think that there is
tremendous anger [and] frustration
about the inability to improve
people's lives."
Republicans also have shown little
ability to raise the level of debate,
Podesta suggested.
Obama's "not dealing with the party
of Lincoln. He's dealing with the
party of Palin," Podesta said,
referring to Sarah Palin, the former
Alaska governor who was the 2008
GOP vice presidential nominee.
0 2010 Capitol News Company, LLC
 --- 

February 3, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

sbwhoeop
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 8:40 AM
H: FYI: Les Gelb. S
Replace Rahm
by Leslie H. Gelb
February 15, 2010 I 10:48pm
I ....7IKristoffer Tripplaar / SPA President Obama desperately needs a sweeping staff shakeup to
save his presidency. Leslie H. Gelb on why he must reassign Rahm, dump Larry Summers, and get rid
of National Security adviser Jim Jones.
The negative, even dismissive, talk about the Obama White House has reached a critical point. The president must
change key personnel now. Unless he speedily sets up a new team, he will be reduced to a speechmaker. It's mostly a
matter of relocating the Chicago and campaign crowd who surround the Oval Office and inserting people with proven
records of getting things done in Washington and the world.
To be fair, it's not clear whether the bad judgments on priorities, practicalities, and steadiness come from Mr. Obama or
his White House team. Maybe he overpowers them in discussions, or maybe he gives them a role in policymaking far
beyond their experience in that realm. Unless you're there, you don't know. But Mr. Obama is the president, and except
for the right-wing crazies, most Americans still recognize his great talents and promise. It is he who's got to be helped. So
it is they who've got to go.
It is he who's got to be helped. So it is they who've got to go.
One may quarrel with my sense of urgency here. But it's hard to have a conversation with opinion leaders anywhere—and
especially in Washington—that doesn't descend into ripping Obama's White House team. The refrain of complaints is
always the same:
• Obama is forever taking strong stances only to backfill and trim. Most recently, he said he did not "begrudge" Wall
Streeters their big earnings because that was part of the market system. This, in the face of his saying only a couple of
weeks ago that such big bonuses were "shameful."
• Obama doesn't know what's really going on. Regarding the Middle East, he recently said that "I think it is absolutely true
that what we did this year didn't produce the kind of breakthrough that we wanted, and if we had anticipated some of
these political problems on both sides earlier, we might not have raised expectations as high." He had to be totally out of it
not to realize that the Palestinians and Israelis were nowhere close to sitting down with each other and dealing.
• Obama wants to get along with everyone so badly he doesn't recognize real opposition when he sees it—let alone know
how to deal with it. He emerges from a meeting with congressional Republican leaders on health-care reform and says he
is "an eternal optimist—when those very same Republican leaders just told the press that they don't see any common
ground and believe the administration has to "scrap the bill and start over."
• It's even hard to follow his latest Afghan policy. He calls Afghanistan a "war of necessity" and orders more than 30,000
new troops there, coupled with an announcement that he'll begin withdrawing some of them in a year plus, only to see
some of his advisers say he will start withdrawals and some say he won't.
I've scribbled similar points in recent months in The Daily Beast. And last week in The Financial Times, Edward Luce
provided a thunderclap on Washington's negative consensus about the incompetence of Obarna's Chicago-laden team.
Luce named names in the White House, and a number of journalists and bloggers strikingly failed to link to the Luce story.
They were said to fear the wrath of the Chicagoans. Steve Clemons, author of The Washington Note, essentially
eridorse.d the Luce finding and slapped his fellow bloggers' wrists for hiding from this issue. The situation is as serious as
it was during the Carter administration. There, two very capable political campaigners--Hamilton Jordan and Jody
Powell—moved into critical White House positions without knowing very much about doing business in Washington. And
they were, quite naturally, too busy to learn. They also added to the "them" versus "us" (Washington insiders and
bureaucrats versus the regular guys from Georgia) mentality that plagues most administrations.
The Chicagoans and others "guarding" the president create their own "us versus them" world. It's hard to imagine a policy
conversation between the president and the Chicago crowd, since none of them, except Rahm Emanuel, has Washington
or policy experience. And there isn't much evidence that they bring in strong-minded outsiders to challenge the president
on a regular basis either. The result is an inexperienced president advised by an inexperienced team.
Here are the personnel changes being bruited about in political and policy circles: First, remove Rahm Emanuel as chief
of staff and move him to a senior political adviser slot. No one I've talked to believes he has the management skills and
discipline to run the White House. But he is a terrific political mind and a fighter and should be given the new job and the
time to do his thing. Proven pros who could step right in include the following: Erskine Bowles, president of the University
of North Carolina and former Clinton chief of staff; Leon Panetta, now CIA director and formerly White House chief as well
under Clinton; Sylvia Mathews, a former deputy chief of staff also under Clinton; and John Podesta, another former
Clinton chief who now heads the Center for American Progress. All four are tough and know how to manage.
Replace Lawrence Summers, director of the White House's National Economic Council, with Paul Volcker, the former
chairman of the Federal Reserve. Summers is brilliant and highly controversial; he's been beaten up and is said to want
out anyway. Volcker has unmatched stature, practical experience, and the courage of a lion. He is the only one now in a
position to get down to step-by-step brass tacks on the economy and stop Mr. Obama's weekly gyrations. Others with
proven track records who can help as inside or outside advisers are: Stephen Robert, formerly head of Oppenheimer,
Vincent Mai, former leader of AEA Investors, and Tom Hill of Blackstone. There are also two economic stars in
Washington who'd improve both policymaking and public combat: Sheila Bair, chairwoman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, and Elizabeth Warren, chair of the Congressional Oversight Panel. One outside adviser above all
would help the president see the economic hard choices ahead: Peter G. Peterson, accomplished businessman and
policy head.
David Axelrod, the senior political adviser to the president, needs to concentrate on the next presidential campaign,
wherein his expertise lies, and not on domestic and foreign policy, where he is just another smart unknowledgeable voice.
Good replacements who do know the politics of Washington would be the aforementioned Podesta; and Tom Deschle, the
former Democratic Senate Majority Leader. As for David Plouffe, another senior campaign aide, now in unofficial
residence at the White House, he should be lodged in the nearby Executive Office Building. Senior adviser and Chicago
buddy Valerie Jarrett is too much a part of the inner circle to move, but she should be given a more limited role in making
policy.
Mr. Obama's crowd appears to think that getting things done means his giving another speech. It's nice, but not nearly
enough.
Robert Gibbs needs a rest from being press secretary. Let's put it this way: He wasn't born for daily jousts with pithy
Republicans. His job calls for memorable and pointed phrases and attacks, not circle-the-wagon circumlocutions. Possible
successors? Try Doyle McManus of the L.A. Times, Jake Tapper of ABC News, or Helene Cooper of The New York
Times.
Last but not least, James Jones, the National Security Adviser, has to move on. The career Marine was greatly admired
and respected as Commandant of the Corps and as NATO's military chief. He handled those duties with great skill. But by
wide acclamation inside and outside the White House, he has not emerged as a strategist—perhaps the key requirement
of this key position. The person in that job has to pull everything together—laying out achievable objectives and precise
plans to dispense carefully packaged carrots and sticks. One Democrat who could step in now, despite his age, is
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Jimmy Carter's national-security adviser. He has a first-rate strategic mind—a rare quality—and
knows how to deliver results. Obama will need to iron out Zbig's lack of sympathy toward Israel and Russia.
Also available are a boatload of first-class retired diplomats with the judgment and background needed to perform the
National Security Council job effectively. They would be greeted with applause both at home and abroad. Try former
ambassadors Thomas Pickering, Morton Abramowitz, Frank Wisner, Reginald Bartholomew, and Winston Lord. They
have it all. At a minimum, they and others like them should form the core of a group that meets regularly with Obama on
strategy.
Yes, many of the pros suggested above have reached their golden years. But 70 and even 80 are the new 60. They all
possess the necessary energy, experience and rare skill in delivering results. They are also shovel-ready. As a critical
bonus, they could and would mentor the next generation down, a very talented one indeed, to succeed them in two or
three years. To lead America and the world, Obama has to grow far beyond his present propensity to treat problems as
intellectual puzzles—to collect facts and hear the arguments. The great tasks of governing demand proven intuition in
sensing what's achievable, which buttons to push when, how to buy the time for power to take hold, how to make
adjustments without flagrantly foolish rhetoric, how to avoid failures that only diminish power, and how to succeed in small
as well as large ways. With a team versed in such arts and skills, President Obama and America would succeed.
Leslie H. Gelb, a former New York Times columnist and senior government official, is author of powerRule,5-. How
Common Sense Can Rescue A /*Verican Foreigp (HarperCollins 2009), a book that shows how to think about and
use power in the 21st century. He is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.
For more of The Daily Beast, toecorn..-:! a fan on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.
For inquiries, please contact The Daily Beast at E-Aitorial©thedailybeast.com.
URL: http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-02-15/replace-rahm/p/
 --- 

I confess that I will never understand how Shaun decides when to call me, DecIan, Lou Susman, or Sid with breaking
news. So many channels!
We've been hearing all day that Peter would take a back-me-or-sack-me public vote of his party. Hopefully tomorrow
will be the day -- and hopefully he'll be successful.
In an interesting show of strength, he has announced he'll resume as First Minister.
 --- 


 --- 

Pse see the Economist article below -- for their analysis not just of the human rights situation but also how to deal w/ the
Chinese. AM
 --- 

Actually binder almost ready so speech is coming in binder
 --- 

February 17, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 

MS,
General Petraeus just logged a call to you from his liaison office in the Pentagon. He will be there until 4:00 PM
today. I will add to your grid.
Lauren
 --- 

His office just called back again to offer another number that they prefer we use. I've made a note of it here.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Madam Secretary, good evening. I just received a question
PJ
 --- 

The first woman professor tenured at Darmouth, who I know, described you as "radiant" at this event.
Cheers!
Under Secretary of State
for Democracy and Global Affairs
Department of State .
2201 C St NW Room 7261
Washington DC 20520
202 - 647-6240
 --- 


 --- 

Will do. PJ
 --- 

Madam Secretary,
Jake mentioned that you would like to see a copy of John Podesta's recent interview with the Financial Times. A
transcript of the interview has not been posted yet, but I have included here the Financial Times article about the
interview. Please just let me know if you would like any further information on this.
Best,
Mike
Former aide urges Obama to regain 'political narrative'
By Edward Luce in Washington
Published: February 15 2010
Barack Obama, US president, has lost control of the political narrative and needs to make more use of his cabinet in
order to regain it, says John Podesta, the man who headed the president's transition team.
"My friends in the White House would agree with this, that they lost the narrative," Mr Podesta said in an interview for
View from DC, the Financial Times' video series from Washington. "Clearly that needs not one speech once in a while: it
needs, I think, to be constantly reinforced. And not just by the president, but by his entire team ... He's got a terrific
cabinet. Use it. Get out into the country and use it."
Mr Podesta, who was also a chief of staff to Bill Clinton, drew parallels with the former president's difficulties in his first
two years, which culminated in the 1994 Republican takeover of Congress following the failure of healthcare reform.
When asked whether the failure of this latest attempt at healthcare reform would result in a similar electoral
"massacre" for the Democratic party at the mid-term elections in November, he said: "I subscribe to that view."
Mr Podesta founded the Centre for American Progress, Washington's largest liberal think-tank, which was often
described as a "government-in-exile" during the years George W. Bush was in the White House. He said Mr Obama had
three options with healthcare reform. First, try to enact the whole thing by using the budget reconciliation process,
which would enable it to pass with 51 votes. The Democrats lost their controlling 60-seat super-majority last month in a
election defeat in Massachusetts.
The second would be to pass a watered down bill with Republican support The third would be to abandon the attempt,
as Mr Clinton did in 1993.
Mr Podesta, whom Mr Obama still regularly consults, said there was still a better than 50:50 chance of getting reform
through. "The worst option among the three is doing nothing, and so they're going to have to figure out which track is
viable," he said. "It may mean doing it with only Democratic votes. But if that is such, then so be it."
He painted a fairly bleak view of the overall health of US politics. "It sucks," he said. Pointing to a strategy of
obstructionism by Republican lawmakers, he said: "I think the president is trying to re-engage with Republicans, but,
quite frankly, he's not dealing with the party of [Abraham] Lincoln. He's dealing with the party of [Sarah] Palin."
The growth of partisanship and the increasing difficulty in getting any big reforms through the Senate were threatening
to turn the US into, "in essence, a parliamentary system without majority rule", where the opposition automatically
opposes any serious initiatives.
The political stasis in California provided the writing on the wall for the US as a whole, he said. Since the 1978 passage of
Proposition 13 in the state, all budget changes had required a two-thirds majority. "And so nothing gets done."
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-1709
(cell) B6
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Pi -- let's connect first thing. This was not new policy.
 --- 

See traffic WI
 --- 

Of course, will book today.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

See VI - perhaps was prescient - see VI
 --- 

Yes we can do that this afternoon.
 --- 

I didn't know that to be the case.
Not sure if we can get the research b/f you speak but will try
 --- 

Will do.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

I haven't forgotten. While we were in the Gulf I asked Phil and Liz and the DCM-note-taker to send everything they had.
I will find time to compile today.
Will be a fun project!
 --- 

I will add Goldwyn and double check on Boswell.
 --- 

You are correct - Eric Boswell is A/5 for Diplomatic Security. Jeff Culver is the Director of DS. I apologize for the mistake.
I have added Goldwyn and corrected Boswell. It takes about a week to have a notebook printed. Would you like me to
go ahead and place an order or wait for more changes/until you use the current stock?
 --- 

I thought you both should hear the words of Andrew Stear, DG of policy at DFID, who told me yesterday that
"throughout the development community around the world there is great relief that the US is back, and leading
particularly in health and food security/agriculture. He said that we were once again the acknowledge "go to people" in
both these areas. He also had lots to say that will b v useful in QDDR re relationship b/w development and diplomacy.
 --- 

House Members (8): Clyburn (Majority Whip/House delegation leader), Conyers, Rangel, Thompson, Barbara
Lee, Connie Mack, Mary Bono Mack, Donna Christensen.
House Staff (2): Stacee Bako (Speaker Pelosi), Dave Grimaldi (Clyburn)
Senators (7 — add'I House Member likely to get 8th slot): Durbin (Majority Whip/Senate delegation leader),
Bingaman, Bill Nelson, Klobuchar, Lemieux, Barasso and 1 other senator TBD.
Senate Staff (2): TBD
Still a chance the trip doesn't go tomorrow depending on the snow storm. Will make a go/no go decision by
cob today.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

I get these reports every morning. They are somewhat painful to read since, as you know, in Pakistan, the
media can be particularly outrageous. However, we can't ignore the fact that these talk shows are the most
watched programming in prime time.. The report below is fairly typical. The host sets up the discussion in
fairly provocative way and the guests, who come from across the political spectrum, respond. As you can
see, the first commentator is strongly anti US. However, what I, have observed since our media offensive
began last Fall is that there is usually a more moderate guest as well, who will argue along the lines that it is
only natural for the US to protect its interests and GOP should do a better job of protecting Pakistan. Believe it
or not there have even been instances where we get credit for some of the things we do. Also on occasion
where there have been particularly egregious attacks on US policy, the host will read a statement from our
Embassy in the following programming. We try to get airtime on these programs whenever possible but it is
hard. It 's a hard slog getting this right but we are making progress.
im
 --- 

I am in touch with Simon directly, we are trying to lock in a March date. Will finalize today.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

FYI
B6
 --- 

Just thought you should know that I met w/
today and he said that at the London meeting you were "fabulous on gender issues — all the Arab
leaders didn't know what hit them." Raising the issue matters. AM
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
1.4(D)
B1
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, February 19, 2010 4:05 PM
FW: Haiti Conference Call.
FYI
We are including them as a representative of the EU and asking them to 1.4(D)
B1
cdm
 --- 

She's sorta right. We post as much video as we can, and bat 1.000 on domestic events. Tougher on overseas events
since we don't have the resources abroad with us that we have here at home. We held a meeting with the web &
broadcasting folks today to talk about this, and came up with a few ways to bolster our road video.
But generally speaking, it's a huge priority for us all to post video whenever possible.
 --- 


 --- 

I will be traveling today, February 19, with intermittent access to my email. If you need to reach me urgently please
contact Nora Toiv, Toivnf@state.gov, 202-647-8633 or Joanne Laszczych, laszczychj@state.gov, 202-647-5548.
Thank you!
 --- 

fyi
 --- 


 --- 

fyi
 --- 

More photos. Hope you're having a lovely weekend. Hudson River is particularly exquisite today.
JM
 --- 

As we discussed yesterday
 --- 

He was scheduled to talk to Ryabkov this am to talk through resolution elements and to check in on missile defense, etc.
I will follow up.
 --- 

on: 02/20/2025
Below is a barebones readout he typed out on his blackberry and sent to Alice, his exec asst, this morning. 1.4(B)
1.4(D)
Quick bberry readout of 40 min call Sat am from Frankfurt airport. B1
 --- 

I thought you shd know that Gen Petraeus is receiving the James Madison medal today at Princeton's alumni day as the 1
graduate alumnus who best exemplifies princeton's motto of princeton in the nation's service and the service of all 1
nations. He is enormously proud, as he shd be, to get this award. I think it would be great if you sent him an email
congratulating him. AM
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Ok
 --- 


 --- 

Yes - will be in offc for part of afternoon so will send you time while you are in church.
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH©state.gov>
Sunday, February 21, 2010 10:51 AM
H
Asked me to call back with details. Any direction?
 --- 


 --- 

great
 --- 

Sounds good. I have the Latin America message meeting slated for Tuesday and will follow up on Andrew,
Hormats/Otero request.
 --- 

It's a good point. We'll get with Phil et al and sort this through.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Sid
 --- 

w/o presuming on the content of the call, you might want to remember that Bildt wrote a very good op-ed after your
internet freedom speech suggesting U.S.-EU cooperation in that area; the Swedish ambassador came to see me last
week to follow up and to say that the Bildt would like to host a meeting in Stockholm on the subject that Alec would
presumably go to. If you need a sweetener of any kind, emphasizing our enthusiasm for following up on this would be
good. AM
 --- 

DUP has gone behind closed doors at Stormont and the smart money is on them emerging at some point supporting the
deal.
There was movement today on the ancillary issue of government support for the Presbyterian Mutual Society, a savings
and loan that lost a lot of money and whose investors didn't get the same financial crisis protections as those in other
institutions. DUP members are pointing to that as enough of a carrot to change their posture on the policing and justice
deal.
Brown and Cowen are poised to go to NI tomorrow. Will keep you posted.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, February 21, 2010 7:42 PM
H
Shaun
H: Just talked to Shaun. He wants to know if, given your schedule, and in addition to your meeting with him, you can have
dinner with the two of us either Tuesday or Wednesday. Sid
 --- 

over. Sid
will do as soon as I hear
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, February 21, 2010 7:55 PM
Re: Shaun
Tues good. Fahrenheit restaurant at Ritz in Georgetown very quiet and fine. People don't know about it. so just let me
know.
 --- 

Shaun just called (7 pm EST) to report 100 percent unanimous support in DUP for Peter Robinson's recommendation to
complete devolution. The deal will be agreed with the two PMs at Hillsborough tomorrow morning, 8:15 am (London time).
If you wish you may call Shaun. You can reach him through No. 10 Downing St switchboard. Gordon will mention your
role tomorrow at the event. Hooray! Sid
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, February 21, 2010 8:06 PM
Re: Shaun
Yes 7 pm ok or do you want another time?
 --- 

We have remarks for you. I recommend calls to PR and MM before you do the press.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Ok
 --- 


 --- 

PM and Taoeiseach will announce deal around 9.30 gmt tomorrow after a plenary of all the parties. I recommend you
do a treaty room statement early tomorrow our time. Will send proposed remarks in a few minutes.
Also recommend you call Shaun tonight if you're available.
 --- 

And to you too
 --- 

You should prepare a statement for tomorrow, noting the relevance for other places
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Thursday, February 4, 2010 8:00 PM
Abedin, Huma
Statement
This will be cleaned up a bit, but here you go:
 --- 

She is on her cell.
###
 --- 


 --- 

Barbara haig — Alexander Haig's daughter / Called to say thank you for the statement that you made. Her father really
respected you. He would been so happy and humbled about what you said. Barbara works for the Nat'l Endowment
for Democracy and says she is grateful for what a help you have been to them, too.
###
 --- 

To long standing conflicts that may appear far from resolution, ethnic and social divisions, peace is possible, and the US
will never give up and always play constructive role
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Monday, February 22, 2010 5:40 PM
H: Just fyi. What's going around...Les Gelb... Sid
ambling Over Rahm
by Leslie H. Gelb
February 22, 2010 I 3:26pm
-
L - Alex Brandon / AP Photo Leslie H. Gelb's call for White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel to
be reassigned spurred a circle-the-wagons reaction from pro- (or perhaps even anti-) Rahm forces.
Gelb sifts the fallout for clues.
When you write that the president of the United States should replace his chief of staff, someone will fire back. So it was
that Rahm Emanuel apparently struck back at my piece last week on the Daily Beast through a column in Sunday's
Washington Post. Only this time, the return fire had a rare twist, one that could produce Washington convulsions. It was
seemingly aimed at me (and others who published suggestions of Emanuel's limitations as chief). But whether it was
intentional or not, the volley actually struck the president himself.
Here is the story, a very Washington tale of stretching permissible criticism of power holders, of pungent media leaks, of
labyrinthine speculation as to who is doing what to whom.
Maybe the leaker thought the way to get rid of Rahm completely was to brand him as a "traitor" to the boss.
With a headline "Replace Rahm," I wrote last Tuesday that Emanuel lacked the managerial skills, discipline, and strategic
ability to get things done as chief of staff. I argued he should be moved over to a political adviser slot, where his
considerable, can-do talents would better serve his boss. I targeted others as well, mostly in Mr. Obama's Chicago crowd.
Several writers also blasted this crowd, mostly with unsigned bullets, but never crossed the red line calling for their
removal. I wrote the piece because it essentially reflected the waves of anti-White House staff critiques breaking over
Washington, but rarely heard outside its drawing rooms. I did it because I believed the president was running out of
chances to succeed and needed better and tougher staffers. I did it because if he failed, the nation failed.
Then came the inevitable blast back, a devastating leak, in a piece by Dana Milbank, a respected Washington journalist.
Interesting that the leaker selected Milbank. He's sort of a half-reporter, half-columnist who roams the entire capital city,
not just the White House. The leaker must have felt safe because Milbank has so many sources all over town, making the
leakers harder to trace.
The Milbank headline read: "Why Obama needs Rahm at the top." It began: "Let us now praise Rahm Emanuel. No,
seriously." Then, he lists me and a couple others who also criticized Rahm. "But," he continued, "sacking Emanuel is the
last thing the president should do."
Then, Milbank (and presumably the leaker) delivered the surprise and wounding blow – to the president himself. "Obama's
first year fell apart in large part because he didn't follow his chief of staffs advice on crucial matters. Arguably, Emanuel is
the only person keeping Obama from becoming Jimmy Carter."
Then, Milbank (and the leaker) took his first shot, not at me, but at congressional liberals and everyone in the Chicago
crowd except Rahm. "Obama's problem," Milbank continued, "is that his other confidants—particularly Valerie Jarrett and
Robert Gibbs, and, to a lesser extent, David Axelrod—are part of the Cult of Obama. In love with the president, they
believe he is a transformational figure who needn't dirty his hands in politics."
So, it was "their" fault—until you see the real blow landed beyond them and on the President himself. "The president
would have been better off heeding Emanuel's counsel," but instead "overruled" him on several key Rahm
recommendations: not rushing to close Guantanamo and bringing terrorists to U.S. prisons, not trying Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed in New York, and going for a smaller health care bill focused on popular items with Republican support. "The
result was," Milbank wrote, "as the world now knows, disastrous." In other words, Mr. Obama could have thrived and
saved himself on key issues had he only listened to Rahm.
It sure looks like Rahm (or someone near and dear to him) trying to save himself at the president's expense. This is an
incredibly unusual leak, seemingly a chief of staff undermining his own boss, the president. Worse, it details specific
advice Rahm personally gave Mr. Obama in the absolute privacy of the Oval Office. Presidents go crazy at such breaches
of confidence.
Which is why another possibility has to be considered: that Rahm was not the leaker. The leak was so egregious, so anti-
Chicago crowd minus Rahm, so devastating to the president, that Emanuel couldn't have been stupid enough to leak a
story where he was the sole, surviving hero. Remember, too, that my piece did not recommend kicking Rahm out of the
White House, just sliding him over into a political adviser job where he could practice small-bite pragmatism. Maybe
someone didn't want Rahm around the White House at all, in any position. Maybe the leaker thought the way to get rid of
Rahm completely was to brand him as a "traitor" to the boss. Maybe the leaker belonged to that contingent of self-
mutilating liberal Democrats who have always viewed Rahm as too centrist and pragmatic.
Of course, I don't know what's afoot. And of course, Milbank put his own views into his own article. But someone gave him
the specifics, the precious ammunition about Rahm's private advice to Mr. Obama. The story is not over.
Leslie H. Gelb, a former New York Times columnist and senior government official, is author of Power Rules: How
Common Sense Can Rescue American Foreign Policy (HarperCollins 2009), a book that shows how to think about and
use power in the 21st century. He is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.
URL: http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-02-22/rumbling-over-rahm/p/
 --- 

Will aim for robinson and Mccue for 745 one after the other. Ok?
 --- 

Car bomb explodes in Northern Ireland
Republican dissidents suspected after blast outside courthouse in Newry as evacuation was taking place
• Buzz up!
• Diqg it
• Mark Tran
• quardian.co.uk, Tuesday 23 February 2010
• Article history
A car bomb exploded last night outside the courthouse in Newry, Northern Ireland, police said. There were no initial
reports of any injuries in the blast.
Police said the vehicle was abandoned at the front of the building in the Co Down town at around lOpm. Officers were in
the process of evacuating the area when the car exploded.
Suspicion is bound to fall on republican dissidents opposed to the peace process. The incident comes only days after a
mortar bomb failed to detonate outside a police station in the nearby Co Armagh village of Keady.
The chairman of the nationalist SDLP in Newry, Gary McKeown, condemned those responsible. "Lives could have been
lost as a result of this bombing," he said. "It serves absolutely no purpose and does nothing for the community, or the
cause of a united Ireland. If people want to advance their beliefs, they should enter the democratic process and debate
with their political opponents, rather than resorting to violence. Planting bombs outside courthouses will achieve nothing."
Earlier this month, police on both sides of the Irish border launched separate operations against dissident republicans.
Police in Northern Ireland arrested two men and a woman in connection with the murder of Constable Stephen Carroll, the
first PSNI officer killed by terrorists in the province.
The Continuity IRA shot the 48-year-old policeman dead on a housing estate in Craigavon, County Armagh, on 9 March
last year. His murder came just 48 hours after the Real IRA killed two British soldiers outside the Massereene barracks in
Antrim. In September police discovered a massive 600lb bomb in the south Armagh village of Forkhill.
On Sunday, Republican Sinn Fein, political allies of the Continuity IRA, claimed masked undercover soldiers carried out
surveillance on two housing estates in Lurgan, Co Armagh, in recent weeks. They claimed the men were scouting the
areas in white civilian vans. Republican Sinn Fein said the soldiers belonged to the Special Reconnaissance Regiment.
The alleged presence of SRR soldiers — formerly known as the 14th Intelligence Unit — is controversial because British
troops are meant to have been pulled off the streets, especially in nationalist areas.
Britain heading for hung parliament
Guardian/ICM poll
Tories might not win election outright, suggests new survey
• Comments (259)
• Buzz up!
• Digq it
• Julian Glover
• quardian.co.uk, Monday 22 February 2010 18.30 GMT
• Article history
The Conservatives should no longer count on winning the election outright, according to a Guardian/ICM poll published
today.
The new survey suggests Britain is on course for a hung parliament amid faltering public support for David Cameron's
party.
The opposition have also lost ground on key policy issues, including the economy, and in particular may be losing their
campaign against Labour's so-called "death tax". Labour leads the Tories by eight points as the party with the best policy
on care for the elderly.
The two parties are neck and neck on their ability to sort out the economic crisis, against a nine-point Tory lead when the
question was last asked in August 2009.
With no more than three months to go until polling day, the Conservatives have fallen to 37%, down three on last month's
Guardian/ICM poll and down two on another ICM poll earlier this month.
The party has not fallen so low in an ICM poll since the tail end of the banking crisis, last falling to 37% in February 2008.
As recently as last October the Tories hit 45% in an ICM poll and the party will be alarmed by this latest evidence that the
race is tightening, which confirms the findings of some other recent polls.
Meanwhile Labour's support, at 30%, is eight points up on its absolute ICM bottom last May, and slightly above its
average for the second part of last year. However, there is no sign of either a boost for the party following Gordon Brown's
Piers Morgan interview or a fall after this weekend's reports about Brown bullying his staff.
Labour's support is up one point on the last Guardian/ICM poll and unchanged from the most recent ICM poll. Research
began last Friday and most was carried out before the serialisation of Andrew Rawnsley's book in yesterday's Observer,
which may have affected Labour support. Around a fifth of responses were collected on Sunday.
Nick Clegg's hopes of a powerful place in a hung parliament are also boosted by today's poll, which puts the Liberal
Democrats on 20%, unchanged from the most recent ICM and down one on last month's Guardian poll.
All this suggests that Labour and the Lib Dems are holding steady while the Conservatives lose some ground to smaller
parties, which are on a total of 13%. Nationalists are on 5%, Ukip and the Greens on 3% each and the BNP on 2%.
Estimates of what these shares would mean for the parties on polling day vary, but a 7% lead is at the margins of what
the Tories think they need to win a majority. One academic calculation suggests the result would leave Labour only 25
seats behind the Tories in a hung parliament, although any improved Tory performance in marginal seats would offset
that.
• /CMResearch interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults by telephone on 19-21 February 2010. Interviews were
conducted across the country and the results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules
 --- 

Northern Ireland agrees power-sharing deal
Gordon Brown hails historic deal which will see justice and policing powers be devolved to Stormont from 12 April
• Henry McDonald
• quardian.co.uk, Friday 5 February 2010 11.42 GMT
•
Gordon Brown, the DUP leader, Peter Robinson, and Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness (I to r) talk to the press after the
Northern Ireland power-sharing deal was announced. Photograph: Julien Behal/PA
Justice and policing powers will be devolved to Northern Ireland's power-sharing government from 12 April in a historic
deal agreed by the main parties that "opens a new chapter" after decades of violence, Gordon Brown said today.
Standing alongside his Irish counterpart, Brian Cowen, at a press conference at Hillsborough Castle outside Belfast, the
prime minister said the "inspirational" agreement between Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionist party (DUP) was a
foundation for lasting peace.
The deal — finally agreed to by the DUP last night and described as a final piece in the jigsaw after a long search for
peace — comes after two weeks of round-the-clock negotiations and brings an end to fears that the power-sharing
government might collapse.
It will see policing and justice powers devolved from Westminster to the assembly within weeks and includes new plans
on overseeing parades.
Brown, who travelled to Belfast this morning, said the agreement had been possible because of "a new spirit of mutual co-
operation and respect".
The deal meets a key Sinn Fein demand and prevents the republican party from walking out of the power-sharing
executive. In return, the DUP has secured reforms to the way loyalist marches are handled in Northern Ireland, including
the abolition of the Parades Commission, a body most unionists regard as biased in favour of nationalists.
A cross-community vote will now be held in the Stormont assembly on 9 March before the policing and justice powers are
devolved from London on 12 April.
Brown told reporters: "The achievements have been as great as they are inspirational. This moment and this agreement
belongs to the people of Northern Ireland, all of the people, and now more than ever before so does their future ... This is
the last chapter of a long and troubled story and the beginning of a new chapter after decades of violence, years of talks,
weeks of stalemate."
Cowen praised both unionists and nationalists for making "fair and balanced compromises" to bridge the divisions and
said the quality of the negotiations meant that the "devolved institutions can and will work".
The Northern Ireland secretary, Shaun Woodward, said the deal would further isolate republican dissidents who have
launched three separate gun and bomb attacks against police stations in the province over the last 10 days. The deal
would "absolutely" make Northern Ireland a safer place, he said.
The DUP leader, Peter Robinson, said the agreement "will be more enduring because of the time spent" in forming it.
Referring back to the Belfast Agreement of 1998 when negotiations bore fruit at the 11th hour, the Sinn Fein president,
Gerry Adams, described the current deal and the rescue of power-sharing as "yet another very good Friday".
Jeffrey Donaldson told the Guardian the DUP's 36-strong assembly team was now unanimously in favour of the deal.
But the Ulster Unionist party (UUP) has yet to officially back the package which will allow the assembly to set up
legislation to change the way parades are judged.
A UUP spokeswoman said members wanted to see the proposed agreement before giving their response to the two
governments. "We have not had sight of this agreement and until we do we will not be signing up to it," she said.
The talks, which centred on Hillsborough Castle, outside Belfast, are the longest set of continuous negotiations held in the
near 20-year peace process. Sinn Fein had accused the DUP of stalling on the transfer of policing powers for the last
three years and it was feared that failure to find agreement could see the collapse of the power-sharing government led by
the two parties.
The agreement finally came near midnight at Stormont's parliament building. Earlier in the evening Sinn Fein had said the
basis of a deal was on the table and it was giving the DUP leadership the time to persuade its party to accept it. Robinson
emerged from a meeting of party colleagues to confirm that he had secured unanimous support for the proposals. Earlier
in the week up to 14 DUP assembly members had opposed a proposed deal because it did not give unionists enough
concessions.
Robinson said he would now look to gain the support of the community and the smaller assembly parties for the deal. "We
have a basis upon which we can go forward and recommend it [the deal] to our party, to the other parties in Northern
Ireland and to the community.
"An essential element of the Democratic Unionist Party's manifesto is the requirement for community confidence; we
believe this can be the basis for gaining that confidence."
However the leader of the hardline Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV), Jim Allister, questioned why the 14 DUP rebels had
changed their minds.
"The deal hasn't changed, only the snowmen of the DUP, who melted once the heat came on," Allister said.
The DUP now faces a struggle to ward off the TUV threat in the forthcoming general election: Allister will portray the deal
as a sell-out of unionist principles and a sop to republicanism.
 --- 

FYI. Seeking info.
 --- 

Assume you know about this?
 --- 

It has been prepared- ready for your signature tomorrow.
 --- 

Mark
Thnx for the offer to help on Expo. I can send you the full list tomorrow. Would be happy to download in the am.
Dell, Intel, Microsoft (and about 20 others) all in but HP is not and Ford despite our best efforts keeps turning us down -
they are the only major global auto company not represented in Shanghai (Blanchard and Gephardt going back at them
yet again this week). Oracle, Alt, ADM, Monsanto, and financial and insurance companies among the other logical
companies not in yet.
Will call you in the am
Kris
 --- 

Not yet. Will keep tabs.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Friday, February 5, 2010 7:11 AM
H
Re: Bravo! Brava! Issue your statement! Sid
Will find out. Why not invite uk and irish ambassadors to State to brief press with you today?
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

Take credit and announce Kelly taking next step, etc Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

Interesting. Slight change of tone.
 --- 

Fyi below
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Tuesday, February 23, 2010 7:38 AM
FW: Rio Group-Haiti
Declassify on: 02/23/2020
 --- 

Yes, will connect with Jake now on remarks as prepared
 --- 

I am checking on Bill Burns right now -- Huma has the best update on the WH tonight. Sid knows we may need to push
dinner a bit too.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

UAE with Bill -- 11:15am-11:45am in Bill's office. You could join after you finish up with Shaun Woodward at 11:30am.
Lunch with UAE starts at 12pm.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

Pretty good stuff!
Robinson and McG have confirmed to speak with you.
In his remarks, Brown indicated that you would host an investment conference this spring. Declan believes this is much
too soon. We might try to steer it to you meeting with Robinson and McG this spring — ie in a few weeks time -- with an
eye toward an investment conference once it is well prepared.
I think we are okay waiting an hour to do the statement, but we'll work to get excerpts out. Kamala announced that you
are speaking at 830.
 --- 

Sure. In touch with Claire about timing.
Jeffrey Feltman
Assistant Secretary
Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs
Department of State
202-647-7209
 --- 

I have a good story for you on this. Your 830 statement will be first react. But I will have them release excerpts of your
statement now.
 --- 

Ambos at event would praise your role
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

Brown mentioned you and your role. Kamala was there at their invitation representing you. She told everyone that you
would speak at 830.
 --- 

This did not occur to me. I'm not sure it's a good idea -- there has been a heavy emphasis on how this deal was made in
NI. Calling Declan for his take.
 --- 

DecIan thinks bad idea because sends wrong message to NI and because this is your moment.
Philippe thinks practically impossible to do.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Here is what Brown said:
Let me thank the American Government for their unstinting support -- especially Secretary of State Clinton, her efforts
over these last few weeks. And Presidents Obama, Bush and Clinton. And we particularly welcome Secretary of State
Clinton's initiative today that she will host a Northern Ireland Investment Conference this spring.
 --- 

Sure. I am available.
 --- 

Same here.
 --- 

7:55 am ARRIVE State Department
8:00 am COFFEE w/JEFF IMMELT AND INDRA NOOYI
8:30 am Secretary's Outer Office
8:30 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Conference Room
8:45 am MEETING ON THE SHANGHAI EXPO
9:30 am Secretary's Outer Office
9:30 am PRIVATE DROP-BY w/ "WILL-I-AM"
9:40 am Secretary's Outer Office
9:45 am
9:50 am
PHOTO OP
Treaty Room
9:55 am DEPART State Department *En route Dirksen Senate Office Building
10:10 am ARRIVE Dirlcsen Senate Office Building
10:15 am PULL-ASIDE MEETING w/SENATORS LEAHY AND GREGG
10:25 am 105 Dirksen Senate Office Building
10:30 am TESTIMONY BEFORE SENATE APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
12:30 pm (t) ON STATE AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS
192 Dirksen Senate Office Building
12:35 pm (t) DEPART Dirksen Senate Office Building
En route Russell Senate Office Building
12:40 pm (t) ARRIVE Russell Senate Office Building
12:40 pm RIBBON-CUTTING CEREMONY FOR THE DEPARTMENT'S
12:50 pm SENATE LIAISON OFFICE 189 Russell Senate Office Building
12:50 pm DEPART Russell Senate Office Building *En route Capitol Building
12:55 pm ARRIVE Capitol Building
1:00 pm LUNCH w/SENATOR BARBARA MIKULSKI
2:00 pm Senator's Dining Room
2:05 pm DEPART Capitol Building *En route Dirksen Senate Building
2:10 pm ARRIVE Dirksen Senate Building
2:30 pm TESTIMONY BEFORE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
4:30 pm (t) 419 Dirksen Senate Office Building
4:35 pm (t) DEPART Dirksen Senate Office Building *En route State Department
4:50 pm (t) ARRIVE State Department
4:55 pm OFFICE TIME
5:40 pm Secretary's Office
5:40 pm MEETING w/RICR, JACK AND JAKE
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:15 pm DEPART State Department *En route Bibiana Restaurant
6:30 pm ARRIVE Bibiana Restaurant
6:30 pm PRIVATE DINNER w/MADELEINE ALBRIGHT Bibiana Restaurant
8:00 pm (t) DEPART Bibiana Restaurant *En route Private Residence
8:15 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

So nice - congrats to you and thanks for all the work you are doing.
cdm
 --- 

Hillary:
I met with Holbrooke today on water. Pakistani military called it their third most important strategic issue. Great
worries about India/Pakistan tension over 1960 agreement that regulates Indus River. We agreed our teams will work
together, most likely through the World Bank supporting the Abu Dhabi Dialogue, which brings together representatives
from the seven countries that share the Indus River Basin. This is the best forum we know of where India and Pakistan
can meet to discuss water issues. In the context of the shared waters memo and chart I gave you last week, this ranks as
potentially one of the most conflict prone, and one where the US should engage to get the parties to work together.
We are advancing well in developing a policy/action plan for you to announce on World Water Day on March 22.
Safe travels to Latin America, so glad you are going.
Maria
Under Secretary of State
for Democracy and Global Affairs
Department of State
2201 C St. NW Room 7261
Washington DC 20520
202- 647-6240
 --- 

"Our view is that the negotiations that have been taking place between Turkey and
Armenia offer a positive path for the future. Anything that would impede the
success of those discussions and negotiations I think is objectionable and I
would just leave it there."
--Secretary Gates, News Conference, Ankara Turkey, 2/9/10 (Response to
question: Do you think it will be helpful to US-Turkish relations if the Armenian
Genocide Resolution passes?)
 --- 

Sorry -- just seeing. Ryabkov called for Ellen this morning and they are set to talk at 1030. Plan is for her to deliver same
message and go to Geneva this evening.
 --- 

9:00 am DEPART Private Residence
En route Rayburn House Office Building
9:00 am CONFERENCE CALL w/PREP TEAM
En route Rayburn House Office Building
9:20 am ARRIVE Rayburn House Office Building
9:30 am TESTIMONY BEFORE HOUSE FOREIGN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
12:15 pm 2172 Rayburn House Office Building
12:20 pm DROP-BY w/CONGRESSWOMAN DIANE WATSON
12:30 pm 2358A Raybum House Office Building
12:30 pm HOLD/LUNCH
12:55 pm 2358A Rayburn House Office Building
1:00 pm TESTIMONY BEFORE HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
3:00 pm FOR STATE, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND RELATED AGENCIES
2359 Rayburn House Office Building
3:05 pm DEPART Rayburn House Office Building
En route State Department
3:25 pm ARRIVE State Department
3:30 pm OFFICE TIME
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm MEETING w/ RICHARD HOLBROOICE
5:15 pm Secretary's Outer Office
5:30 pm MEETING vv./ADMIRAL MIKE MULLEN, CHAIRMAN JOINT CHIEFS
6:00 pm OF STAFF Secretary's Office
6:00 pm MEETING w/DENNIS ROSS (I)
6:30 pm Secretary's Office
6:30 pm DEPART State Department
En route Private Residence
6:40 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

•
• EUROPE NEWS
• FEBRUARY 25, 2010
Obama Advisers to Aid Tories' Election TV
Battle
By IAIN MARTIN
Advisers close to U.S. President Barack Obama have been drafted by David Cameron to help the Conservatives in their
election campaign against Gordon Brown and Labour.
The Tories have signed a contract with Squier, Knapp, Dunn Communications—a Washington-based Democrat-leaning
political consultancy— to help them prepare for the first-ever television debates between leaders during a British election
camialin.
David Cameron
The firm also is expected to offer some advice more broadly to the Tory leader on the Conservative campaign in the lead-
up to voting, likely to take place on May 6.
Opinion polls have suggested a narrowing of the gap between the two main parties—with the Conservative lead cut to six
to seven points in the two most recent polls earlier this week.
A Conservative spokesman confirmed Wednesday night that Squier, Knapp, Dunn will act as consultants for the television
debates.
Anita Dunn, one of the firm's senior partners, was hired by Mr. Obama in 2006 ahead of his run for president and was the
communications director at the White House until November. Bill Knapp, another senior partner and veteran of the
successful Obama campaign, is a close adviser to the mayor of New York City, Michael Bloomberg.
Tory campaign insiders say they have been talking to the firm for several months after a recommendation from Mayor
Bloomberg, who retains close links with the British Tory leadership.
He was a lifelong Democrat who switched to the Republicans when he first ran for mayor.
The British general election is taking on a particularly American flavor, with the prime minister also understood to be
seeking advice from a consultant based in the U.S. The Times of London reported that Joel Benenson, a polling and
strategy adviser who worked on the team that readied Mr. Obama for the American TV debates, is helping Mr. Brown.
None of the British parties has experience of leaders' debates and as a consequence are looking outside for help.
However, it is the decision of the Tories to reach out across the traditional ideological divide to senior Democrats that is
surprising. Their party usually has looked to Republican strategists for advice, with Labour and the Democrats retaining
close links.
Ms. Dunn is a veteran of Democrat politics, beginning her career in Jimmy Carter's administration and subsequently
working as a consultant on many election campaigns. She returned to the White House with President Obama but left late
last year when her husband, Robert Bauer, the president's personal attorney, was unveiled as the incoming White House
counsel.
Mr. Knapp made television ads for the Obama campaign, has worked on five presidential campaigns and played a leading
role in Mayor Bloomberg's three election wins.
The pre-election atmosphere in the U.K. has become increasingly fraught, with the parties trading blows on allegations of
bullying inside No. 10 Downing Street made in a new book on the Labour government by journalist Andrew Rawnsley.
In the latest developments, the prime minister Wednesday in a GMTV breakfast television interview denied that he had
known about briefings by some of his aides against Alistair Darling, his chancellor of the exchequer.
In a remarkably frank interview Tuesday with Jeff Randall of Sky News, Mr. Darling said that when he remarked in the
summer of 2008 that the worst global recession in 60 years was underway, No. 10 had "unleashed the forces of hell."
Mr Brown said on GMTV: "I was never part of anything to do with this. Look, this was the most amazing time.. .and lots of
things were happening in this time. But I would never instruct anybody to do anything other than support my chancellor,
and I think Alistair will confirm that."
At a rowdy Prime Minister's Questions in the House of Commons Wednesday, Mr. Cameron questioned Mr. Brown on the
row.
Write to lain Martin at iain.martinwsi.com
Copyright 2009 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
 --- 

She is staying a few more weeks b/c it lets her retire.
Lona already has been at work per an earlier email from me I forgot on a party for her and picked a date that works for
you and her.
 --- 

And your statement is out
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Declan urges that you be somewhat vague w invites to PR and MM and steer clear of inv conference
 --- 

I am traveling outside of the country, with intermittent access to my email. If you need to reach me urgently please
contact Nora Toiv, Toivnf@state.gov, 202-647-8633 or Joanne Laszczych, laszczychj@state.gov, 202-647-5548.
Thank you
cdm
 --- 

What is mullen's first name?
 --- 

Importance: High
See email chain below about media coverage of Afghanistan. I will work with SRAP to be sure we have a Haiti-like plan
in place for Afghanistan.
jmis
 --- 

http://www.suntimes.com/2072121,desiree-rogers-quits-022610.article
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, February 5, 2010 8:24 AM
H
Fw:
There may be hope ... See traffic
 --- 

http://www.guardian.co.uk/politics/2010/feb/05/northern-ireland-police-powers-agreement
Brown hails 'new chapter' in Northern Ireland
as end to years of violence
Promise of US investment follows 'momentous' agreement that seals power-sharing framework
• Henry McDonald, Ireland correspondent
• quardian.co.uk, Friday 5 February 2010 19.11 GMT
•
X
British and Irish PMs endorse power-sharing deal Link to this video
Northern Ireland's leaders have been rewarded with the promise of a new US investment programme after securing a
historic deal today which saved power sharing.
Gordon Brown and his Irish counterpart, Brian Cowen, flew into Northern Ireland to put their seal of approval on the deal,
which will create a Department of Justice, gives unionists concessions on the issue of Protestant parades and saves the
power-sharing executive from collapse.
Brown said the achievements over the longest period of unbroken negotiations since the peace process began 16 years
ago were inspirational.
"This is the last chapter of a long and troubled story and the beginning of a new chapter after decades of violence, years
of talks, weeks of stalemate."
Tonight the White House said Barack Obama saw the deal as "an important step to greater peace and prosperity for all
communities on the island."
Obama would also meet Cowen, the DUP leader and first minister Peter Robinson and the deputy first minister, Sinn
Fein's Martin McGuinness, in Washington on St Patrick's Day next month.
Earlier, Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, said the agreement between the DUP and Sinn Fein was a "shining
example to other parts of the world locked in religious and ethnic conflicts".
As a result of the deal, she said: "The people of Northern Ireland are poised to build a thriving society on this stronger
foundation.
Our economic envoy, DecIan Kelly, will continue to help Northern Ireland reap the dividends of peace, including economic
growth, international investment and new opportunities. -
In the near future, Declan and I will host first minister Robinson and deputy first minister McGuinness in Washington."
The Irish prime minister said the agreement reached "presents a real opportunity to renew the partnership which is the life
blood of the devolved institutions. The people of Northern Ireland yearn for this constructive partnership to deliver tangible
outcomes that improve their lives."
Referring back to the Belfast agreement of 1998, Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein president, described today's agreement as
"yet another good Friday." After reaching an agreement just before midnight on Thursday, the parties in the Northern
Ireland assembly must now vote to put the compromise package in place. They will vote on 9 March to devolve policing
and justice powers, which will then create a justice ministry on 12 April — a key Sinn Fein demand throughout these
negotiations.
Under the agreement, a six-member working group, appointed by Robinson and McGuinness, will formulate a framework
for handling contentious marches and the phasing out of the Parades Commission.
The new body will encourage local people to find solutions to parading problems, with the rights of marchers and
residents taken into account. It will complete its work within three weeks, when the Northern Ireland executive will transfer
responsibilities for parading legislation from Westminster and table a new bill based on the group's proposals.
An executive working group will be set up, in the hands of the SDLP and Ulster Unionists, to improve the way the power-
sharing cabinet is run. Robinson and McGuinness will address issues still outstanding from the 2006 St Andrews
agreement that led to the DUP-Sinn Fein deals. These include legislative measures to protect the rights of Irish language
speakers.
Ian Paisley Jr, the North Antrim assembly member and son of the DUP's founder, described the agreement as a "win for
unionism".
Paisley said his party had negotiated the end of the Parades Commission, which most unionists regard as biased in
favour of nationalists. He added that unionist critics of the deal had "no alternative except the imposition of joint authority
from London and Dublin".
Mindful of attacks on the DUP by the hardline Traditional Unionist Voice, Robinson said: "There are some who will play
politics with this agreement, but the real focus in the months to come must be on building an administration at Stormont
that our whole community identifies with and supports."
Jim Allister, the TUV leader and a former DUP MEP, said he was "relishing the prospect" of a general election contest
with his former party. Allister will stand for the TUV in Ian Paisley Sr's North Antrim constituency.
"In football terms I see this result as a five to one win for Sinn Fein. They get their date for policing and justice. Secondly,
their veto can be exercised over the justice ministry. They now have working party on Irish language. North/South bodies
are strengthened. And finally there is a stronger north-south parliamentary forum. The DUP only get a view of parading
issues.
"Sinn Fein are laughing all the way to the next staging post," he said.
Shaun Woodward, the Northern Ireland secretary, said the deal was bad news for republican dissidents determined to
destabilise the power-sharing government.
He said a powerful message was being sent out to the dissidents that there are now "two groups of people who were once
terrible rivals [who] have found a way through a very big challenge".
But the Real IRA, Continuity IRA and Oglaigh na hEireann are unlikely to be moved by the accord at Hillsborough. In the
past seven days the republican dissidents have carried out three gun and bomb attacks on police stations across
Northern Ireland.
Republican sources have told the Guardian that the groups are likely to intensify their armed campaigns when policing
and justice powers are transferred to Belfast.
 --- 

FYI --
Reid: Shelby Has Hold On All Nominees
Friday, Feb. 5, 2010
Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., has placed a blanket hold on all executive nominations on the Senate calendar in an effort
to win concessions from the Obama administration and Pentagon on a variety of fronts affecting his home state, according
to aides to Senate Majority Leader Reid.
Reid spokeswoman Regan Lachapelle said Shelby is blocking more than 70 pending nominations. Reid can force a vote
on any nomination by filing cloture.
Because of the time required to vote on multiple nominations, the Senate processes most nominations by unanimous
consent. Any one senator can block any of those nominations by objecting to a unanimous consent request to take it up.
The nominations will remain stalled unless Reid files cloture.
While holds are frequent, Senate aides said a blanket hold represents a far more aggressive use of the power than is
normal.
"He should not be holding up 70-plus nominees for a parochial issue," a Democratic aide said. "They're qualified and they
should be moving forward."
Disclosure of the blanket hold came after two days in which top Democrats voiced mounting frustration with Republican
holds on executive nominees.
'We've got a huge backlog of folks who are unanimously viewed as well qualified -- nobody has a specific objection to
them -- but end up having a hold on them because of some completely unrelated piece of business," President Obama
said Wednesday in a televised meeting with Senate Democrats.
On the Senate floor Thursday, Reid, Senate Majority Whip Durbin, Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy and
Senate Armed Services Chairman Carl Levin ripped Republicans for holds on national security nominees and judges.
Reid, who kept the Senate in pro forma session over recent holidays to prevent former President George W. Bush from
making recess appointments, said he has grown so frustrated he might advocate such appointments, which the president
can make when the Senate is out of session.
'What alternatives do we have?" Reid said on the floor Thursday. "What alternative do we have?"
Earlier in the day, a spokesman for Shelby said the senator has placed holds on "several pending nominees due to
unaddressed national security concerns," including frustrations with the Air Force's handling of the competition for an
aerial refueling tanker. The spokesman did not respond to later requests for comment about the blanket hold.
Northrop Grumman Corp. and EADS, the European consortium behind Airbus, and Boeing Co. are vying for the high-
stakes contract, potentially worth $40 billion. The Northrop/EADS team would build the planes in Mobile, Ala., but has
threatened to pull out of the competition unless the Air Force makes changes to a draft request for proposals.
"Nearly 10 years after the U.S. Air Force announced plans to replace the aging tanker fleet, we still do not have a
transparent and fair acquisition process to move forward," the spokesman said. "The Department of Defense must
recognize that the draft request for proposal needs to be significantly and substantively changed."
Defense Secretary Gates Wednesday told House lawmakers the Pentagon plans to issue the final request for proposals
soon, and will proceed with the program whether or not there is a competition.
"Obviously we would like to have a competition for it, and we hope that both companies will agree to participate, but we
will move forward," Gates said. "We have to have new tankers."
In addition to the tanker issue, Shelby's spokesman said he is frustrated that the Obama administration won't build an
Alabama-based FBI center to analyze improvised explosive devices.
Shelby secured a $45 million earmark in the FY08 omnibus appropriations bill for a Terrorist Explosive Device Analytical
Center to be set up at the Army's Redstone Arsenal.
"Sen. Shelby will continue to work with the FBI to give them the capability to coordinate intelligence as well as forensic
and technical exploitation related to IEDs, but this administration's coddling of terrorists makes this an uphill effort," the
spokesman said. "He has made the administration aware of these concerns and is willing to discuss them at any time."
Also Thursday, Vice President Biden said he was so frustrated by Republican foot-dragging that he was considering
whether Senate rules should be changed.
"There's a little disappointment in that it seems like the only way to do business up here anymore is with a supermajority
on almost everything," Biden said moments after swearing in Sen. Scott Brown, R-Mass., who gives Republicans 41
votes, enough to filibuster on any issue.
'What I have been doing is spending a lot of time having my staff go back and scrub this, you know, the use of the
filibuster and how it's worked," Biden said. "This is not a constitutional requirement."
Biden defended the 60-vote requirement, calling it "a useful tool. It's legitimate, but from my perspective having served
here, having been elected seven times, I've never seen a time when it's become sort of standard operating procedure. ...
Requiring a supermajority is just not a good way to do business."
by Dan Friedman and Megan Scully
 --- 

They may seek Geithner's co-signature on the letter, if they can get him while he's in Canada snow-boarding. You can't
make this stuff up.
 --- 

I just spent an extra hour explaining the architecture of the IHRC/HDA.
They had misconstrued it to be something that wjc now could not do b/c of his new un role.
We can discuss.
Will fill wjc in on the plane.
I hear it's snowing - won't likely make it back to dc until sun or mon
 --- 

You are s000 lucky!!!
 --- 

Soaring cost of healthcare sets a record By Noam N. Levey February 4, 2010 Los Angeles Times
Spending was 17.3% of the economy last year. The share paid by the U.S. will soon exceed 50%, a study says.
In a stark reminder of growing costs, the government has released a new estimate that healthcare spending grew to a
record 17.3% of the U.S. economy last year, marking the largest one-year jump in its share of the economy since the
government started keeping such records half a century ago.
The almost $2.5 trillion spent in 2009 was $134 billion more than the previous year, when healthcare consumed 16.2%
of the gross domestic product, according to an annual report by independent actuaries at the federal Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, scheduled for release Thursday.
The nonpartisan accounting agency also projected that as early as next year, the country could mark another milestone
as government picks up more than half of the nation's total healthcare tab for the first time.
The rise in current costs, driven in part by surging spending in Medicare and Medicaid, and the bleak projections for the
future do not take into account changes that may come if Democrats revive their healthcare overhaul legislation.
The report appears likely to fuel further debate about the health bills now stalled in Congress.
In the absence of change, the report raises a grim prospect for the country -- a healthcare system consuming an ever
greater and potentially unsustainable share of the economy even as private health coverage lags.
Last year, CMS estimated that government spending on healthcare would not overtake private spending until 2016,
compared with 2011 or 2012 in the current report.
"The health system is hurting, and we are seeing that in these numbers," said Karen Davis, president of the
Commonwealth Fund, a leading authority on healthcare policy.
The report also points up the financial cost of the so-called Great Recession and the growing pressure it is putting on
state and local governments.
Federal and state spending on Medicaid, the nation's primary health insurance program for low-income Americans,
jumped nearly 10% in 2009, according to the report. Medicare spending, meanwhile, shot up just over 8%.
Obama and many healthcare experts have argued that reshaping the healthcare system will ultimately make it more
efficient, even if overall health spending continues to increase -- a claim Republicans dispute.
Fueled by new technology, an aging population, rising incomes and other changes, spending on medical care has been
consuming a larger and larger share of the nation's economy for years, jumping from about 5% of the gross domestic
product in 1960 to nearly 14% in 2000.
But the recession that began in 2007 accelerated that trend, as the economy contracted while healthcare spending
continued to increase, according to CMS.
Even now, with the economy slowly recovering, the government expects that the growth of healthcare spending will
outpace the expansion of the economy. By 2020, 1 of every 5 dollars spent in the U.S. is expected to go to healthcare.
Some economists believe that this is not necessarily a problem, as the healthcare industry can provide good jobs and
improve both health and productivity.
But there is growing concern that as much as a third of the medical care delivered in this country does not help patients.
"Are we getting value for the dollar? That is the question," said Len Nichols, health policy director at the centrist New
America Foundation. "If you believe that so much medical care is unnecessary, as I do, then it is criminal that we are
spending so much."
Stuart Butler, vice president for domestic and economic policy at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said that the
numbers underscore the need for more aggressive action to curb spending.
"The only way to do this is to simply spend less," Butler said, warning that the health bills being pushed on Capitol Hill do
the opposite.
CMS officials noted that healthcare spending has been increasing even as the number of Americans without health
insurance is growing, another sign of problems with the system.
"With higher unemployment, people lose their jobs [and] many of them lose their healthcare coverage in the process.
And under current law, they don't have much to fall back on," said Richard S. Foster, chief actuary.
Foster said that the report by his office indicated that two of the main trends driving calls for a health overhaul -- rising
costs and shrinking numbers of people with health coverage -- are essentially the same as they were when the
healthcare debate began last year.
"Nothing much has changed in that regard," he said.
Inefficiency is becoming a particularly acute problem for state and federal governments, which the report shows are
increasingly supporting the nation's healthcare system.
Half a century ago, government accounted for just a quarter of all healthcare spending. Now, as the cost of caring for
elderly and poor Americans swells, government's share of the total bill is fast becoming greater than that of the private
sector.
The trend accelerated in the recession, as Washington spent billions of dollars to help states prop up Medicaid programs
being strained by the growing ranks of the unemployed and uninsured.
The healthcare legislation being debated on Capitol Hill could increase the government commitment to healthcare as
the federal government boosts the Medicaid program and provides billions of dollars of subsidies to low- and moderate-
income Americans to help them buy insurance.
But in a separate report a month ago, CMS actuaries estimated that the Senate healthcare bill would boost total
healthcare spending by less than 1% over the next decade, in large part because the legislation includes initiatives to
make Medicare more efficient.
 --- 

ANGOLANS TO VOTE IN 2012, PRESIDENT MAY EXTEND TERM(SBU) Constitutional revisions signed by President dos
Santos abolish direct presidential elections and would allow dos Santos to remain in power until 2022, according to
press. The Angola desk comments the move is a step backwards for democratic reform, and adds the changes shuffle
the government, keeping Foreign Minister dos Anjos in office but removing Defense Minister Paihama. (Ops/Angola
desk telcon, Reuters
 --- 

you?
 --- 

you?
Actually he called back and took the earlier time of 9:30. So strobe, lobo, patino, mubarak. Then u can decide on johnnie
and alec ross.
 --- 

you?
Coming over secure fax at 9am.
 --- 

Oscar, can u print this asap for hrc. Its for her 9:30am call. Thx.
 --- 

The Secretary's Phone Call with Egyptian President Mubarak
Background: S/E Mitchell met with Foreign Minister Aboul Gheit and EGIS Chief Omar Solimon on January 24 in Cairo.
While Solimon responded positively to S/E Mitchell's request that Egypt encourage Palestinian President Abbas to agree
to proximity talks, Aboul Gheit asserted that the Palestinians should not agree to any form of negotiations until Israel
has taken action on the "five steps" requested by the Palestinians. Aboul Gheit then hosted a meeting on February 3
with Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat and Jordanian FM Nasser Judeh, which Solimon attended in part. Egypt and
Jordan agreed to support the Palestinians entry into proximity talks, but the three sides also agreed that Abbas would
seek U.S. views on two questions: 1) The terms of reference for the proximity talks and 2) Whether the U.S. would
present its own bridging proposals on final status issues or simply serve as a conduit for the parties' positions. Deputy
Envoy David Hale met with Abbas on February 5, during which Abbas indicated flexibility on both the terms of reference
(he would accept a general formula based on language from the Roadmap) and on the U.S. role. You should emphasize
that it is critical that Abbas agree to begin proximity talks immediately to lay the foundation for negotiations that will
realize Palestinian aspirations for an independent and viable state.
 --- 

Ok great! We'll do ecuador now cause otherwise we lose him.
So pinato, mubarak, lobo.
 --- 


 --- 

So qatar and saudi?
Yes or no to bahrain?
 --- 

You are congratulating him on becoming foreign minister, and purpose is to establish a personal relationship with him.
Trying to get u call sheet, its classified....
Lobo call not happening today.
 --- 

Sorry I mean pinato
He's not available
Heard u got lobo.
 --- 

We'd have to come up with something. Which we can.
 --- 

Aboul gheit just called to follow up on mubarak call. Do you want to take it?
 --- 

Call sheets should have been in your call sheet folder. Not sure what happened.
 --- 

Yes
 --- 

sbwhoeoP
Saturday, February 6, 2010 10:51 AM
H: Distant early warning. Sid
hrc memo DEW 020610.docx
February 6, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 

February 6, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

Will do. Before the plan was simply to have GB present and Cameron to respond. I'm trying to figure out what the
element of surprise is adding here.
 --- 

FYI. The latest thinking is that this would be a Clinton-Ashton statement. We'll make sure you have a chance to
see/approve final, and we can work to incorporate any changes you have now.
 --- 

It took 19 hours but I got home at noon today.
I can talk at 830pm tonight if that works for you? I cam also do tomorrow am.
Cdm
 --- 

Text not set. Among other things, they're still working through whether to mention detainees.
 --- 

How about 830am?
 --- 

I'll tell him...
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Have had 2 sessions since u & I talked, having another Sat afternoon. No particular need for further guidance from u; but
glad to connect at any time. Tks for terrific event in the 4-letter-word fishinf village.
 --- 

Can u call me
 --- 

Ur email must be back up!!
What happened is Judith sent you an email. It bounced back. She called the email help desk at state (I guess assuming u
had state email) and told them that. They had no idea it was YOU, just some random address so they emailed. Sorry
about that. But regardless, means ur email must be back! R u getting other messages?
 --- 

Nothing.
 --- 

For WJC too.
Good meetings.
Spent about 3.5 hours w/ preval and bellerive.
They are very much on board w/ ihrc/hda and had some comments we can discuss when we talk.
Same on mdtf.
Discussed the political situation and the options they are looking at - quite thorny, particularly in terms of what to do re
constitutional legitmacy.
He's on board w/ a visit on 10 mar w/ dinner w/ you and wjc on 9 mar.
More when we talk - taking off now.
Cdm
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Not sure why these came back - scroll down for messages
 --- 

Scroll down
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Today's Dallas Morning News editorial page condemns attorney David Schiller for including you in the wrongful death
suit that he filed on behalf of the Lozado family. It ends with "... citing Clinton is enough to give even ambulance-
chasing lawyers a bad name."
 --- 

B6
RELEASE IN PART
B6
 --- 

Good Afternoon,
I work as a Help Desk Analyst and it has come to my attention that one of our customers has been receiving permanent
fatal errors from this address, can you please confirm if you receive this message.
Thank you for your assistance,
Christopher
Christopher Butzgy
VES-IRM (POEMS)
202-647-8700
This e-mail is Unclassified based on the criteria of E.O. 12958
 --- 

- u can call now
 --- 

• oClose Window
• Print this page
From The Sunday Times
February 28, 2010
Gordon Brown on course to win election
David Smith and Jonathan Oliver
GORDON BROWN is on course to remain prime minister after the general election as a new Sunday Times poll reveals
that Labour is now just two points behind the Tories.
The YouGov survey places David Cameron's Conservatives on 37%, as against 35% for Labour — the closest gap
between the parties in more than two years.
It means Labour is heading for a total of 317 seats, nine short of an overall majority, with the Tories languishing on a total
of just 263 MPs. Such an outcome would mean Brown could stay in office and deny Cameron the keys to No 10.
The poll result presents the Conservative leader with one of the greatest challenges of his leadership today as he makes
the keynote speech to his party's spring forum.
In an interview with The Sunday Times, Cameron defied his right-wing critics who believe the party's modernisation has
gone too far. He said: "Some people say to me, 'Play things safe; try to win by default — the government is in a mess.' I
say, 'No. This is the Conservative party that is offering radical change. I'm doubling up on change'."
With the expected May 6 election now just over two months away, Cameron will seek to reconnect with voters through a
series of pledges, including a plan to restore discipline in schools. In an echo of the speech that won him the Tory
leadership in 2005, he will address the Brighton conference without notes.
"This is very, very clear," he said. "I've made my choice. There is no going back. This election is about change and we will
be offering change."
Cameron insisted he was unconcerned about the collapse in Tory support. "The polls move around a lot," he said. "The
voters tell us that they want change. They want to know the Conservative party itself has changed."
The narrowing of the Conservative lead has been dramatic and rapid. Until January the Tories held close to a 10-point
lead. But a week ago a Sunday Times YouGov poll put the gap at six points, suggesting a hung parliament, with the
Tories still on course to become the largest party.
In the last election, in 2005, support for the parties generally held steady in the run-up to polling day. YouGov polling for
The Sunday Times showed Labour leads of between two and five points from January through to the June election.
Labour's margin of victory was three points.
In today's poll, Labour has risen two points on the previous week, from 33%, while the Conservatives have dropped two
from 39%. The Liberal Democrats are unchanged on 17%.
The collapse in the Tory poll lead will put pressure on the pound in financial markets tomorrow by adding to fears that a
hung parliament will mean insufficient action is taken to cut Britain's budget deficit.
The last time the gap between the two main parties came this close and the Tory support was so low was in autumn 2007.
That was before Brown's honeymoon ended with his failure to call a snap general election. The Conservatives went on to
peak in May 2008 with a 26-point lead.
Today's poll suggests recent claims about Brown's tantrums and his intimidation of staff may have actually helped him.
Just 28% of people believe the prime minister is a bully and 50% agree he has a "strong sense of right and wrong".
The survey disclosed growing concerns about Cameron's elite background and lack of empathy with ordinary families.
Just 25% think that Cameron understands problems faced by "people like me", compared with 35% for Brown.
 --- 

• oplose Window
I[TA ==.----------
• Print this page
From The Sunday Times
February 28, 2010
Gordon Brown on course to win election
David Smith and Jonathan Oliver
GORDON BROWN is on course to remain prime minister after the general election as a new Sunday Times poll reveals
that Labour is now just two points behind the Tories.
The YouGov survey places David Cameron's Conservatives on 37%, as against 35% for Labour — the closest gap
between the parties in more than two years.
It means Labour is heading for a total of 317 seats, nine short of an overall majority, with the Tories languishing on a total
of just 263 MPs. Such an outcome would mean Brown could stay in office and deny Cameron the keys to No 10.
The poll result presents the Conservative leader with one of the greatest challenges of his leadership today as he makes
the keynote speech to his party's spring forum.
In an interview with The Sunday Times, Cameron defied his right-wing critics who believe the party's modernisation has
gone too far. He said: "Some people say to me, 'Play things safe; try to win by default — the government is in a mess.' I
say, 'No. This is the Conservative party that is offering radical change. I'm doubling up on change':
With the expected May 6 election now just over two months away, Cameron will seek to reconnect with voters through a
series of pledges, including a plan to restore discipline in schools. In an echo of the speech that won him the Tory
leadership in 2005, he will address the Brighton conference without notes.
"This is very, very clear," he said. "I've made my choice. There is no going back. This election is about change and we will
be offering change."
Cameron insisted he was unconcerned about the collapse in Tory support. "The polls move around a lot," he said. "The
voters tell us that they want change. They want to know the Conservative party itself has changed."
The narrowing of the Conservative lead has been dramatic and rapid. Until January the Tories held close to a 10-point
lead. But a week ago a Sunday Times YouGov poll put the gap at six points, suggesting a hung parliament, with the
Tories still on course to become the largest party.
In the last election, in 2005, support for the parties generally held steady in the run-up to polling day. YouGov polling for
The Sunday Times showed Labour leads of between two and five points from January through to the June election.
Labour's margin of victory was three points.
In today's poll, Labour has risen two points on the previous week, from 33%, while the Conservatives have dropped two
from 39%. The Liberal Democrats are unchanged on 17%.
The collapse in the Tory poll lead will put pressure on the pound in financial markets tomorrow by adding to fears that a
hung parliament will mean insufficient action is taken to cut Britain's budget deficit.
The last time the gap between the two main parties came this close and the Tory support was so low was in autumn 2007.
That was before Brown's honeymoon ended with his failure to call a snap general election. The Conservatives went on to
peak in May 2008 with a 26-point lead.
Today's poll suggests recent claims about Brown's tantrums and his intimidation of staff may have actually helped him.
Just 28% of people believe the prime minister is a bully and 50% agree he has a "strong sense of right and wrong".
The survey disclosed growing concerns about Cameron's elite background and lack of empathy with ordinary families.
Just 25% think that Cameron understands problems faced by "people like me", compared with 35% for Brown.
Furthermore, only 28% think the Conservative leader wants to do the best for "all groups in Britain", against 39% for the
prime minister.
Peter Kellner, president of YouGov, the Sunday Times pollster, said that while individual polls could throw up unexpected
shifts, the recent trend had been for a significant narrowing of the Tory lead.
"Our daily polls should be regarded a bit like the FTSE index: a 100-point rise or fall in a day might be a blip or a trend —
often we can't tell for a few days," he said.
"I am confident the Tory lead is down this weekend but I can't promise whether the latest movement will be sustained,
increased or reversed in the days ahead. One of the reasons for doing daily polls is to monitor these fluctuations."
The Tory lead of 6%, which was first reported in The Sunday Times, was maintained in YouGov's polls in The Sun last
week. The increase in support for Labour on Thursday and Friday, as the latest Sunday Times poll was being conducted,
came as figures showed a strengthening economic recovery.
Under the British parliamentary system, the prime minister remains in office after a general election until he either tenders
his resignation or is defeated in a Commons no confidence vote.
If the election result leaves Labour just short of an overall majority, Brown is likely to battle on, with Labour running the
country as a minority government. The party would seek to do deals with minor parties such as Ulster's Democratic
Unionist party or, if necessary, Nick Clegg's Liberal Democrats, to get its legislation through parliament.
If repeated in a general election on the basis of a uniform swing in all constituencies, today's poll would leave Labour just
nine seats short of the 326 needed for an overall majority in the new 650-seat House of Commons.
The Tories would be well behind on 263 seats, with the Liberal Democrats on 41. Kellner calculated that, even allowing for
a larger swing to the Tories in marginal seats, where the party has spent millions of pounds on campaigning, the poll was
consistent with Labour being by far the largest party.
He suggested that in such a scenario Labour might win 300 seats, with the Tories on 270 and the Lib Dems on 50.
Labour will believe it is benefiting from the upturn in the economy. For the first time in a YouGov poll since July 2007,
before the financial crisis, people trust Labour more than the Tories to run the economy.
YouGov, which began polling after the 2001 election, has developed a reputation for accuracy. Its final Sunday Times poll
in 2005 was precisely right, and it accurately predicted Boris Johnson's victory in the 2008 London mayoral election and
the results of last year's Euro elections.
Contact our advertising team for advertising and sponsorship in Times Online, The Times and The Sunday Times, or
place your advertisement.
Times Online Services: Dating I Jobs I Property Search I Used Cars I Holidays I Births, Marriages, Deaths I
Subscriptions E-paper
News International associated websites: Milkround
Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Ltd.
This service is provided on Times Newspapers' standard Terms and Conditions. Please read our Privacy Policy.To inquire
about a licence to reproduce material from Times Online, The Times or The Sunday Times, click here.This website is
published by a member of the News International Group. News International Limited, 1 Virginia St, London E98 1XY, is
the holding company for the News International group and is registered in England No 81701. VAT number GB 243 8054
69.
 --- 

I did email her yesterday to see availability. Will confirm her
 --- 

Yes I emailed u back earlier, hope u are not having more trouble.
Have told mario we are switching. Secret service knows. Lona confirming.
 --- 

We just heard there's no 2. Its 230 or 3. What would you like?
 --- 

This is old.
She emailed back this am and said she wasn't free.
 --- 

Just reached Tom about it. Alerted him to the version as it came to me, including potential of its breaking. He seemed
a) aware of the basis for what I'd heard, b) to share my assessment/concern (though asked me to elaborate, which I did
vividly), and c) prepared to make sure that whatever ready to be is said publicly - and whatever happens diplomatically -
put the kibosh on the version as it came to me.
Incidentally, unbidden by me on both points-i.e., volunteering-he went out of his way to says upbeat things about you
and downbeat things about OMF. Said he wanted to discuss that with me in person. I said nothing of substance, except
always glad to talk.
Over and out, tho would appreciate you're confirming receipt, since I'm not cc'ing anyone on this.
Cha-cha-cha (even though you're not going to Argentina-and rightly so).
 --- 

Death toll jumps to 708 after Chile quake: president
SANTIAGO, February 28, 2010 (AFP) - The official death toll for Chile's devastating 8.8-magnitude earthquake and
resulting tsunami jumped Sunday to 708 confirmed fatalities, President Michelle Bachelet told reporters here.
 --- 


 --- 

Will follow up on both. Safe travels!
 --- 

Zach talked to me about it last night as well. Will be between april 21st and may 2nd. He will let us know as soon he gets
the date.
Cdm did tell us to hold the 9th at whitehaven so we are doing that.
 --- 

Will do.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

Will do.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

Will follow up with Huma and report back.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

Ok
 --- 


 --- 

I'm planning on writing it up -- v useful for the QDDR.
 --- 

Yes went to 2
With nephews for till halftime
And dougs party for second half
 --- 

Most observers seem confident that tomorrow will go smoothly. Shaun has indicated that he'd like to speak with you
late morning or early afternoon. I'll check back in tomorrow am.
 --- 

This is from the political officer in London:
David Cameron will be given the right of reply after the PM's statement this afternoon -- followed by Q&A. UUP MP
Sylvia Hermon is likely to be "unhelpful" during the Q&A.
The Conservatives are becoming exasperated by the rumors that appear in the press and elsewhere that they are
unsupportive of the agreement. Our contacts say the Tories have been completely consistent in supporting the
government on devolution, though they don't believe HMG handled the issue well (i.e. allowing the exclusion of the UUP
and SDLP).
Reg Empey is scheduled to meet his MLAs tonight to review the document and prepare for the working group with
SDLP's Margaret Ritchie.
 --- 

FYI. They want to issue as USG. Are you comfortable with that?
 --- 

It's true you've got to consider the source...
 --- 

The Secretary's Call Sheet for
Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov
February 8, 2010
 --- 

We should get you together with Jim, Jack, and Anne-Marie on the early side tomorrow, so that your guidance can be
reflected in the BCL that Anne-Marie's shop is preparing for Jim and Jack for the 5:30 DC.
For what it's worth, my overall take on the document
My other concern
\
 --- 

Jim appears to be largely out-of-pocket, and it's critical that he be part of the conversation. So tomorrow might be most
productive.
 --- 


 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

We also have equadorant foreign minister that never happened sat if u want to make that one as well. Either today or
tomorrow
 --- 

February 8, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

Just saw the email from Sid - was working on the below report. Shaun apparently had a much
more pessimistic view of what Cameron would do than all of our Parliament watchers, who felt
confident from the get-go that he would support the deal.
PM Brown praised all parties involved; stressed the need to adhere to the dates laid out in
the agreement several times; welcomed the supportive Westminster interventions during the Q
and A of SDLP Mark Durkan and DUP Peter Robinson and Nigel Dods, but pointedly expressed hope
that other parties (read UUP, whose MP was either not present or simply didn't speak) would
express their support as soon as possible.
As expected, David Cameron praised the agreement and all parties; raised the desire that all
parties (read SDLP and UUP) be given time to review the document; and pointedly asked the PM
what issues that were not expressly mentioned in the agreement would be addressed by the
Working Group -- to which Brown responded, "all the issues outstanding from St Andrew's."
Cameron and Brown praised the U.S. role, singling you out. Brown also twice referred to your
offer to host an investment conference.
Overall, nothing concerning from the Tories...on the contrary, full support, a request that
the minority parties have a chance to review and some questions on outstanding issues.
UUP MLAs meet tonight to review.
Note: DUP interventions were balanced.. .Dods raised parades and decommissioning as reminder
of outstanding issues, but stressed desire of all parties "not to go back" to the bad old
days. Minor dig at previous Sinn Fein "threats." Robinson stressed cooperation in the
negotiations. Struck a statesmanlike tone.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Phil got a readout from Ops following the call. Memcon will be done tomorrow because of the snow day.
 --- 

Your staying home tomorrow will make lots of parents at higher levels feel ok about staying home with their kids. I may
be one of them!
 --- 

and more
See traffic b/I
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 02/08/2025
 --- 

Welcome back to an unbelievable snowy mess in DC!
I wanted to tell you that I met with the Lithuanian official who is heading up the Community of Democracies. Lithuania
has the lead for the next two years. They are extremely energetic and recognize that CD needs to be reinvigorated. It
was not given much leadership from us during the Bush years and besides democracy got a bad name — among other
reasons. Their plan is to create a few working groups focused on issues that are current and important with specific
practical goals and tangible results — among them, one will be focused on women and their critical role. As you know,
they have a female president, the EU has just established a Gender Institute in Vilnius and they remember Vital Voices
when you headed up the conference in Iceland and the successor conference which was held in Lithuania in 2001. We
talked about a more concerted commitment -- to advocating for women and the role they need to play in conflict
resolution (1325), helping women in Afghanistan and working to help women in eastern Europe and the Caucuses where
things appear to be going backwards in many ways (takes me back to our first-ever VV conference in Vienna).
I agreed that we would co-chair the gender working group with Lithuania.
The Lithuanians believe that in many ways the younger generation takes for granted what the older generation fought
for (they remember being a "Captive Nation and how the US kept them going with an embassy when they was little
likelihood at the time that they'd ever become a democracy), and that today democracies are struggling in too many
places. It's as though we have to take back democracy's good name and focus it as a universal value to address the
critical challenges.
Mike Posner has the lead on CD. I talked to him about all of this. He is all for our doing the gender working group as
something tangible. He is concerned about where the Community of Democracies goes more broadly. Since this was a
creation of the Clinton Administration and since democracy is under siege in so many places, I hope we will find a way to
work with the Lithuanians and others who still want to see it make a difference. In some ways it may be more relevant
today. They are planning the first ministerial in Krakow in July and hoping so much that you will be a part of it.
Assuming I can get there, I'm going to their embassy in the morning where several government reps of participating
countries will be meeting to announce next steps, including the gender working group.
 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B6
I drove the roads - I live lots of packed hard snow and two stuck cars. It's
worse than it seems
 --- 

Still haven't heard anything about funeral arrangements for Mr Murtha. I am planning to attend, wherever it will be
(johnstown or arlington). Will let you know when I hear something. It's such a big loss for the community, the state and
the country. PA officials are talking about a special election on May 18th.
 --- 

more
Am going to connect w/ bellerive in am
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 02/08/2025
 --- 

You ok with this?
I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Congressman Jack Murtha. From the battlefields of Vietnam to the hills
of Western Pennsylvania to the halls of Congress, Jack Murtha lived by the Marine Corps credo "Semper Fidelis," never
wavering in his faithful commitment to the country he loved and the men and women who bravely defend her. In war
and in peace, he fought for what he knew was right, even when it was unpopular. He was a fierce advocate for working
families struggling with a changing economy and for better health care and equipment for servicemembers. And over
the course of more than three decades in Congress, he became one of our nation's most respected voices on national
security and foreign policy. Presidents of both parties sought his advice and generations of colleagues looked to him for
leadership and wisdom. As Senator from New York serving on the Armed Services Committee, I was fortunate to call
Jack a friend and mentor. And as Secretary of State, I continued to rely on his expertise and judgment. I knew that Jack
would always shoot straight, like the Marine he was, and never shy away from a difficult question or a tough fight. Today
our country has lost a decorated war hero and a distinguished public servant. The men and women of the our armed
forces have lost a tireless champion. And the people of Pennsylvania's 12th district have lost a neighbor, an advocate,
and a true friend. My thoughts and prayers are with them and with Jack's beloved wife Joyce and their family. He will be
sorely missed.
 --- 

The hearings on wednesday are off. The senate foreign relations committee moved its hearing to Thursday am. And
house foreign ops is tentatively scheduled for thursday afternoon. Given the forecast, neither of these may actually
occur.
Starting to hear that murtha funeral will be saturday in johnstown, but that is not confirmed yet. Will let you know.
 --- 

more
If I can take a diff car I am going in; if not I'll work from here
 --- 

Not sure - but this is a good excuse to bring him in for an OTR with you. Lona mentioned you wanted to see Tom
Friedman - with your ok, we could schedule both (separately) over the next month or so
I'd very much like to get back in the habit of bringing someone or a small group in every few weeks.
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 


 --- 

Jake Sullivan <
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 9:57 AM
preines(
H; CDM; Huma Abedin
Re: David Brooks
Philippe and I had an offline conversation about this and I agree entirely. I think it makes sense for you to meet
with influencers on a regular -- though not intrusive -- basis. An OTR conversation with you is the best way to
help guys like Brooks "figure out" how things work.
On Tue, Feb 9, 2010 at 9:44 AM, PIR <preines wrote:
Not sure - but this is a good excuse to bring him in for an OTR with you. Lona mentioned you wanted to see
Tom Friedman - with your ok, we could schedule both (separately) over the next month or so
I'd very much like to get back in the habit of bringing someone or a small group in every few weeks.
 --- 

Here is an assessment from EUR:
Re: s comments on Romania/Moldova
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
In
E31
2006, he said, "We are the only country, the only people, which remain still divided. Germany reunited its
nation; Romania remains still divided into two countries. But, I repeat, our reunification will occur inside of the
European Union and in no other way." In 2009, he said "Who can imagine that a head of Romanian state will
sign a treaty to entrench the Molotov-von Ribbentrop Pact?"
During his late January trip to Chisinau, Basescu's message on territorial integrity and supportive of
EU integration. He said "Romania recognized the state borders of the Republic of Moldova inherited from the
former Soviet Union. Romania agrees to sign an agreement in regards to the existent border regime, the way it
was inherited from the USSR." Romania and Moldova, in fact, have good relations and no real border issues;
the two governments are working on an agreement to make cross-border travel easier for Moldovans.
The biggest challenge to Moldova's territorial integrity is Transnistria, where de facto authorities rely on the
long-term presence of Russian forces for political support. Moldova's leaders seek a transition to a multilateral
presence and withdrawal of Russian troops, but this is not likely without a political settlement on Transnistria's
reintegration. Moldovan and Transnistrian authorities are pursuing quiet confidence building measures and
(Russia, Moldova, Ukraine, Transnistria and the OSCE are the 5
parties and the US and EU are the 2 observers), but
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 02/09/2030
 --- 

From EUR:
Update on Ukraine Election Situation
With over 99.9 percent of the vote in Ukraine counted, Yanukovych leads by 3.5 percent
(almost 900,000 votes) and is the clear winner and next president. The Central Election
Commission should complete its vote tabulation today and must certify the results within ten
days; certification is expected as early as Friday. Tymoshenko, who has been silent publicly,
plans to bring cases of alleged electoral fraud to the courts, but they will not change the
result. Tymoshenko claims that she intends to work within the law and not to incite street
protests.
Our recommendation is
EU Ambassadors in Kiev
have recommended the same approach to Brussels, but want to revisit it if there is no progress
by Friday. Medvedev called Yanukovych today with praise for the conduct of elections, but
stopped short of congratulating him on his victory.
Following certification of the election, Tymoshenko is likely to appeal within the legal five-day
period. This will likely push back an inauguration date until early March.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Phil believes he has nailed down where things are on Belarus. Note is coming your way spelling out state of play and
proposing a cable, which they will prepare.
 --- 

Importance: High
Madame Secretary:
You have asked about the USG's options regarding the 10 Amcits from Idaho in Haiti, from the New Life
Children's Refuge, who are currently being charged with child abduction and criminal association crimes under
Haitian law. Depending on the GOH' s intent, we believe the USG would have the following basic options:
Please let us know if you need more information, and especially if you would like us to contact DOJ to
inquire further.
 --- 

As I told Susan, Cheryl asked for a memo from L for S BY TOMW AM outlining S's
options re the Amcits. Her questions:
 --- 

From the Murtha office below....still checking on whether there will be something in D.C. on Friday.
 --- 

Importance: High
FYI
- - —
 --- 

As I told Susan, Cheryl asked for a memo from L for S BY TOMW AM outlining S's
options re the Amcits. Her questions:
 --- 

FYI:
Brazilian FM defends dialogue with Iran
BRASILIA, Feb. 9 (Xinhua) -- Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim said Tuesday Brazil would maintain negotiations
with Iran on uranium enrichment and oppose any sanctions against Iran.
Amorim said Brazil was against the production of nuclear weapons, but Iran had the right to carry out a peaceful nuclear
program.
"Dialogue is still possible. What we want is to make sure (that the uranium will not be used to make weapons) through
peaceful ways and dialogue," Amorim told reporters.
Under a draft deal brokered by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the UN nuclear watchdog, most of Iran's
existing low-grade enriched uranium should be shipped to Russia and France, where it would be processed into fuel rods
with a purity of 20 percent.
Iran declared on Tuesday it had started the process of producing 20-percent enriched uranium inside the country.
In response to Iran's announcement, the U.S.-led Western countries have warned to take political and economic
sanctions against Iran.
For his part, Amorim said he considered any kind of sanctions ineffective and dangerous because they might cross a limit
and jeopardize peace.
Iran's president made an official visit to Brazil in November, during which the Brazilian government defended Iran's right
to have its own peaceful nuclear program including uranium enrichment similar to Brazil's, following international
standards.
 --- 


 --- 

Mitchell/mara/jake agree best thing for mohlo to be told that you got full debrief on their meeting and given the
schedule challenges for tomorrow, would not be able to do mtg.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

See below from Tom. We can put together a conference call at your convenience with Arturo, Craig, Carmen, CDM, me,
and perhaps Jim.
On the Mitchell material, for reasons that elude me, the two versions of the Blair statement were done on the classified
system. Ops will get the statement and the other document to you ASAP. I've also asked them to convert the statement
so that it can be emailed to you.
 --- 

Trust me, I share your exasperation. But until ops converts it to the unclassified email system, there is no physical way
for me to email it. I can't even access it.
 --- 

The first has Mitchell's edits, the second is original from Blair's guy to Mara:
Draft Statement by the Secretary as Revised by Senator Mitchell
Original Draft Statement by the Secretary Submitted by Tony Blair
The United States is determined to bring about a two-state solution. Believes there is a strong basis for doing
so. Believes it can be done by combining a renewed political negotiation with change on the ground, bottom up, as set
out in Prime Minister Fayyad's plan for a Palestinian state.
To this end,,Tony Blair, as Quartet Representative, will work in partnership with Senator Mitchell to support the political
negotiation by mobilizing the efforts of the international community: (1) to build support for the institutional capacity
and future governance of a future Palestinian state; (2) to improve freedom of movement and access for Palestinians;
(3) to encourage further private sector investment; and (4) to bring change in the living conditions of the people in Gaza.
 --- 


 --- 

More from Tom.
 --- 

1.4(B)
1.4(D)
B1
B5
I called Bill about that this morning when I saw the stories.
In short, he thinks this is all playing out in Moscow, not in Geneva.
 --- 

Troubling news from Europe.
 --- 


 --- 

B5
 --- 

sigh
 --- 


 --- 

Jake Sullivan
Cheryl Mills
Mike Fuchs
Carmen LomeIlin
Craig Kelly
Jim Steinberg (tentative)
Arturo Valenzuela
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Ops will connect to you.
 --- 

Will call when I get off call before 4pm
 --- 

Just FYI on the below, from one of those crazy right "magazines" - notes that the home you referenced in your Prayer
Breakfast remarks has since closed.
I checked in with Lissa & Melanne, they didn't know it closed, which makes sense since it happened in 2002 after you left
the White House.
I made it clear that your longtime commitment to this issue - throughout your public career - is well known, and you
remain very proud of your work with Mother Teresa in opening this home in 1995. And that your partnership is a
success story to be emulated.
Again, this is just FYI
http://www.worldmag.com/webextra/16398
ADOPTION I Hillary Clinton continues to hail an adoption home she helped open with Mother Teresa that has since
closed its doors By Emily Belz
WASHINGTON—An adoption ministry Secretary of State Hillary Clinton hailed as a home she helped open with Mother
Teresa no longer handles adoptions and its phone line has been disconnected, though at last week's National Prayer
Breakfast Clinton spent five minutes of her 30-minute speech relating the story of its opening. Last Thursday Clinton
described Mother Teresa "beaming about what this meant for children and their futures," seemingly oblivious that the
Mother Teresa Home for Infant Children in northwest Washington, D.C., is now defunct. She said she worked tirelessly
to "cut through all the red tape," although it appears that red tape prevented the work from continuing. According to a
pastor at the church next door to the home's former location, the adoption ministry failed to take off because the
Roman Catholic nuns who ran it weren't allowed to care for babies without medical personnel on site. "I'm not sure the
legal thing that came down upon them, but they realized they needed to expend their energies in another way," said
Maureen Freshour, who along with her husband, David, pastors Chevy Chase Baptist Church and lives nearby. Freshour
has stayed in touch with the nuns from the Missionaries of Charity order who ran the home and said that the remaining
three or four sisters have moved to another house in Washington, where they are ministering to the homeless."This has
been a core issue—adoption—whether the home [Clinton] talked about survived or not," said Chuck Johnson, chief
operating officer of the National Council for Adoption. "It's an issue she's been consistent on."During her speech on
Thursday, Clinton reminisced about the 1994 National Prayer Breakfast when she attended as first lady and Mother
Teresa was the speaker. The Roman Catholic nun delivered a blistering speech about abortion, saying, "Any country that
accepts abortion is not teaching its people to love, but to use any violence to get what they want." Mother Teresa then
called on attendees to fight abortion through adoption: "Please don't kill the child. I want the child. Please give me the
child."The audience that day gave her a standing ovation—but President and Mrs. Clinton, both pro-abortion, did not
stand. Afterward, Mother Teresa asked to meet with Hillary Clinton and they went to talk behind a curtain on the stage,
sitting on folding chairs, Mother Teresa in sandals even though it was winter."She told me that she knew that we had a
shared conviction about adoption being vastly better as a choice for unplanned or unwanted babies," Clinton related last
Thursday. "And she asked me—or more properly, she directed me—to work with her to create a home for such babies
here in Washington."Clinton followed through and set up a home for unwanted babies in Washington in just over a year,
no small feat in a city that was known then for its inefficient and corrupt bureaucracy. The Mother Teresa Home for
Infant Children opened in June 1995 in the district's affluent Chevy Chase neighborhood to house eight pregnant
mothers and their babies—but it remains unclear whether it facilitated any adoptions.I called the Missionaries of Charity
in Washington, a worldwide Roman Catholic order established by Mother Teresa. The nun who answered the phone said
she couldn't give her name because they aren't allowed to talk to the press. She did say, however, that the sisters who
are in the order now were not in the order when the adoption home opened, so she wasn't sure why it closed. She
added that the order sold the Chevy Chase house in 2002. "We work with the poor and we didn't have any work there
because it's a rich neighborhood," she said. The sisters, she added, are now working with the homeless and those with
AIDS in a more transitional neighborhood in the northeast section of town on Otis Street.
###
 --- 

I will look into what happened to it after 2002 (LH was released 6/03, so better than 04)
 --- 

See message below from your friend the egyptian foreign minister....
 --- 

fyi
 --- 


 --- 

I
 --- 


 --- 

More details...
 --- 

I suspect they want him in Johnstown, but I will double check.
 --- 

Will do
 --- 

Checking
 --- 

Pls print.
H < hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:49 AM
'Ji I otyLC@state.g ov'
Re: FYI... David Crane... Fw: Catch up
 --- 

Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:50 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: Haiti
 --- 

Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:50 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: Haiti
 --- 

Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:50 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: H: early review. Sid
 --- 

Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, February 1, 2010 8:51 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: Thank you
 --- 

I did not know I was going out there today and I'm not sure why I'm going. What is it for?
 --- 

Can I call you?
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

I just tried calling but couldn't find her. I'm on way home.
 --- 

P.J.---Thanks for the headsup about question. I was not saying anything new and believe I have said this before
and am copying both Philippe and Jake so all three of you can help me remember when, where and whether. Also, I
believe the POTUS has also said this. Let's discuss tomorrow.
 --- 

When am I scheduled to fly back?
 --- 

What is evidence that this group sponsored it?
 --- 

Pls do.
 --- 

over. Sid
Let me know. Thx.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, February 4, 2010 7:06 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: URGENT GOOD NEWs ON NI!!!! Sid
Fyi. So I need to do press early starting by 9.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Thursday, February 4, 2010 7:09 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: URGENT GOOD NEWs ON NI!!!! Sid
B6
That is wonderful! Kudos to Gordon and Shaun.
 --- 

How would you frame the relevance? I'm copying Jake Sullivan who works w me on this.
 --- 

They did.
 --- 

Yes.
 --- 

I will be doing a press event at 8:30. Do you know if Gordon mentioned me? Can you find out? Is Shaun still coming
Monday? If so, I want to take you both out to dinner!
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 5, 2010 7:12 AM
Huma Abedin
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Fyi - robinson/mcguiness haven't confirmed yet.
And I doubt they will. Too much else going on. Also, we should put out the statement now to get into stories before
anyone else. I can still do press event.
 --- 

Reaction?
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 5, 2010 7:13 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: Bravo! Brava! Issue your statement! Sid
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 5, 2010 7:15 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'preines ; Huma Abedin B6
Witten statement now?
I'd like to be first w statement on behalf of USG. Can we do asap and then repeat on camera?
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Agreed.
 --- 

On another matter--I'd like to w you. Pls remind me.
 --- 

Pls print
 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B5,B6
 --- 

What can we do?
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

Are you getting ready to leave?
 --- 

I know! So are you there or leaving now? I'd love to talk w you and Bill.
 --- 

you?
Ok at 10:30.
 --- 

you?
Is there a call sheet?
 --- 

Ok I'm done w Strobe. Also let's go on our trip. I think it's worth it. And we can alWays add Israel as we did before!
 --- 

I don't have call sheets for Lobo or Equadoran. Can you send on my email.
 --- 

Getting it.
 --- 

If we can stop in Bahrain, I'd like to but what would schedule be?
 --- 

Pls send me call sheet for Equadoran--i don't have a clue!
 --- 

I talked w Lobo already but Equdoran not available.
 --- 

Yes I did. Thx.
 --- 

Ok. Can we do now?
 --- 

They were earlier but somewhere along the way disappeared!
 --- 

020610.docx
Fyi. Can you determine when Shaun wants to talk?
 --- 


 --- 

Hope all is well. Let me know if and when you can talk yonight or tomorrow.
 --- 

Of course I will do. Is the text set?
 --- 

Can we do in morning? What time works for you?
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

I'm happy to talk w Shaun anytime.
 --- 

PIs note on calendar. Thx.
 --- 

When the snow melts, I'd love to hear what he had to say!
 --- 

Pls be sure Bill and I do a letter to for his marriage in June. B6
And pls put the following on my call list:
Alston Johnson
Francis Collins
Derek Harvey (he came into see me in the Senate) Paul Charron Lisa Caputo Marty Edelman
 --- 

Good on all counts! Are you at a Super Bowl party?
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Not a surprising assessment from Embassy.
 --- 

Ok. I can also talk after the Lavrov call.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Pls remove the following:
Lobo
Lavrov
Talbott
Conyers
Murtha
Solis
Nagin
Stewart
Height
 --- 

Did EUR get memcon of my call w Westerwelle?
 --- 

But I just heard that federal agencies will be closed again tomorrow! What are we doing to avoid or win the EP vote on
2/11?
 --- 

I wouldn't have closed the govt again tomorrow but once the decision was made, it is difficult to operate inside the
Building since so many staff will stay away. So let's work from home--again!
 --- 

more
I read all the way down and am very concerned but not surprised. Have you shared the content w Bill? What do you
think should be done--and by whom--to address these issues?
 --- 

I can't believe the govt is closed again. I guess I will work from home again but think this is silly.
 --- 

I am so sorry we lost him. Ed Rendell told me he wants to hold a big memorial service in the State Capitol in Harrisburg
but he hasn't spoken to Joyce yet. I haven't either. I'd like to go too wherever it is. Let me know what you hear.
Also, since the govt is closed again tomorrow and Congress cancelled too, and another big storm is expected tomorrow
night, do you think Congress will even bother showing up for our hearings? I'm planning on working from home.
 --- 

more
Are you going to stay home?
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 7:39 AM
'preines 'sullivanjj@state.gov' B6
Huma Abedin
'cheryl.mills
David Brooks
Took a shot at me in his column today. Any ideas what prompted it?
 --- 

RELEASE IN PART B6
 --- 

Can you call me?
 --- 

It's a public statement! Just email it.
 --- 

Well, that is certainly worthy of being top secret. Fine to go w Mitchell version; Blair's seems written as an oral
statement.
 --- 

In stories today RI suggests we're open to alternatives to our TRR proposal. The WSJ says it's a reversal of position. What
gives?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 1:17 PM
'preines
Re: FLOTUS re XFLOTUS
That's so nice.
 --- 

Any word on status in Geneva?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 2:35 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'Classified by DAS, A/GIS, DoS on 07/30/2015 — Class: CONFIDENTIAL
Re: Iran — Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 02/10/2025
B5
 --- 

Agreed.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 3:00 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Iran
 --- 

When can you talk? I'm free until 4 and after 7.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

I didn't know that--can we find out why. At least we had it open for 7 years but why does stuff like this stalk us?
 --- 

Also, I wrote about it in Living History and no one said a word. Was it still open in some form in 2004?
 --- 

I know but can't get the STEA to work--didnt work this am for secure fax either so trying the white phone now.
 --- 

Does this mean Bill should not plan on going and we just wait for the public memorial service?
 --- 

I called and talked w INR DAS Jim Buchanan at John Dinger's request. Pls let John know.
I called Marty Edelman and LM.
 --- 

Just heard on TV they may be released tomorrow since judge found they had no criminal intent. Do you know if that's
true?
 --- 


 --- 

The Lithuanian FM just told me the Community of Democracies is July 9-11 in Cracow, Poland. I have to go since I
promised the Polish FM but had hoped they would schedule July 2-4. Can you check w EUR and DRL to see if dates can
be moved? If not I can only go for the 9th since Let's see if there is
any give. I would also go to other places first during that week in Europe, including Warsaw for a bilateral meeting.
Also, am I doing a video to congratulate Lithuania on the 20th anniversary of their Independence on March 11?
 --- 

I agree and will act accordingly.
 --- 

Indeed!
 --- 

Agree that if they're released then get them out asap. Either we or DOJ can issue statement.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Agree w strategy.
 --- 

Pls add to List:
Bill Galston
Evan Bayh
Warren Buffet
Judith McHale
 --- 

B6
Thankfully, all is well.
 --- 

You're so right. Thankfully all is well.
 --- 

See you tomorrow. B6
 --- 

Vu All Over Again)"
Pls print.
 --- 

Thanks on both counts.
 --- 

Thanks for your concern I'm on the way to Qatar and Saudi
Arabia. I will see the Sheikha in Doha and learn more about her work. I hope to see you soon for a catchup visit. All the
best.
 --- 

Thanks--see you next week.
 --- 

Will you be in next week? I hope we can catch up.
 --- 

Sounds good. Let's discuss when we see each other--hopefully next week.
 --- 

I will have more to say when I see you on the plane, but I wanted to share some thoughts from Judith McHale, that are
not in reaction to the speech which I doubt she's seen, but which more generally address the question of communicating
w Muslim audiences
Judith mentions a recent piece by Joe Nye which is also worth reading that I will forward to you. Thx.
Muslim engagement
 --- 

Fyi.
 --- 

Good for Paul! I look forward to reading it.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, February 13, 2010 10:31 AM
'cb B6
Re: Get well soon
Who is and doing what?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, February 13, 2010 11:40 AM
'sbwhoeop
Re:
Ok.
 --- 

I agree.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, February 13, 2010 1:17 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re:
Are you at home?
 --- 

Let me know what the outcome is---this is very unfortunate so hope we get it fixed.
 --- 

Fyi.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 9:57 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Fw: H: FYI: Les Gelb. S
 --- 

Pls schedule call when I can do this afternoon. I'm on my way back.
 --- 

PIs print.
 --- 


 --- 

Thx.
 --- 

Can I take the 8pm Friday and the 8pm Sunday?
I hope we can talk about the long term schedule today.
 --- 

Don't forget the consolidated report of the Sarkozy mtg. One of the all-time best!
 --- 

Also, I hope you will soon be moving back to the center of the action!
 --- 

What is status of his appt request for Simon Stringer?
 --- 

Can you check on this for us? Thx.
 --- 

Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, February 19, 2010 12:14 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: H: FYI. The end of Justice Jim. Sid
 --- 

What # did you use to reach him today?
 --- 

Is the speech now being reviewed? I think the basics are there, altho I am aware that every word will be parsed. Also, I
think we should endorse institutional reform to support that agenda.
 --- 

I'd like to send letter for memorial service and call family.
 --- 

Bill wants to go to church at 10:15 so can we do btw 12 and 7 ?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, February 21, 2010 12:13 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re:
Asked me to call back with details. Any direction?
We don't know about this and have no plans to do so, but Bill will call him later to return his call
 --- 

Yes--and Bill wanted to talk w you too. Can he do that after we finish?
 --- 

When I'm in NY at UN I'd like to have mtg w Margot Wallstrom, the new Special Rep on sexual violence. Melanne knows
her.
I'd like to do a mtg early in week about message for Latin Am trip
I need to see Andrew this week w Jack Lew.
Am I scheduled to re-launch the NetFreedom Taskforce per a memo I rec'd from Hormats and Otero?
 --- 

How does the collapse of the Dutch govt. affect our speech?
 --- 

Foe example, the statement that the debate about out-of-area operations being over doesn't look so clear post Dutch
decision.
 --- 

This new effort is very encouraging but will require boatloads of patience.
 --- 

I'd like to do and probably better on Tuesday. I'll confirm tomorrow. Where do you want to go? I prefer quiet and
private around 6:30-7 if that's ok for you both.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, Februa 21, 2010 7:58 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: Shaun
That sounds good. Will you make reservations for us?
 --- 

Ok w 7.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, February21 2010 9:14 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: Shaun
 --- 

Any updates?
 --- 

I just got back and will be up for awhile.
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

Did anyone claim responsibility?
 --- 

Mark--thanks for the offer of help. I'd appreciate anything you can to do assist w the completion of the American
Pavilion. I am copying Kris Balderston, who is working on the Expo project for me, and asking him to contact you to
follow up. All the best.
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

Have I written the family a condolence letter?
 --- 

Nope.
 --- 

Is the UAE FM is meeting w Bill Burns before my lunch w him? If so when and where?
What happened to the idea of my going by dinner at WH? Any other way I could see the CEOs who will be here?
 --- 

Print this, not the first version.
 --- 

I spoke w Bildt about Internet freedom and thanked him for the op-ed. He wants to have a "brainstorming" seesion 0
 --- 

(I didn't finish!) And so would you pls contact the Swedes to discuss such a mtg? Thx.
 --- 

Could we do conf call at 7am to go over some questions?
 --- 

I will call all--around 7:10.
 --- 

I assume he's avoiding the call. I hope Ellen is going anyway and that she will chase Antonov to Moscow if necessary.
What more can we do?
 --- 

I talked w Ellen so up to date.
 --- 


 --- 

Have we made progress on the Expo?
 --- 


 --- 

Mike.
 --- 

Do you know what this is?
 --- 

I've gotten some messages from yesterday--how about you?
 --- 

It is such a sad situation.
 --- 

Either now (Bill wants to catch up w you too) or early tomorrow
- am?
 --- 

Ok. Pls call me then.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, February 27, 2010 8:03 PM
'stalbott
Re: Our mutual friend
Could you talk now or tomorrow early morning?
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

I thought she wasn't available but that Alex was coming--or is that old berry info?
 --- 

Message received--thx.
 --- 

March 9--I may need to host a small dinner for Pres. Preval, maybe at my house.
Zach Iscol's movie was accepted for the Tribeca Film Festival and will be shown btw dates in late April and early May.
Can we find out when?
 --- 

FYI--MMM told me she will lead a delegation to Malawi for the marriage on May lof one of the leading women activists
and the President and asked if we knew anyone who'd like to go. Pls let he know. Thx. April 24 engagement party in
Philly
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, February 28, 2010 4:59 PM
'ValmoroU©state.gov'
Re: Schedule
Thx. Also pls put as option:
 --- 

