
 --- 

Yep.
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Sunday, June 20, 2010 10:54 AM
H
Follow up
 --- 

Bill and I discussed
 --- 

This is what we propose to put out, with Rs putting out similar:
Today, Secretary Clinton spoke by telephone with Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov. They discussed preparations for the
upcoming June 24 summit between President Obama and President Medvedev. Secretary Clinton and Foreign Minister
Lavrov reveiwed developments in Kyrgyzstan and stressed their shared concern over the recent violence and continuing
interethnic tensions. The ministers agreed that the issue of the upcoming referendum us the sovereign decision of
Kyrgyzstan to make and agreed to encourage the authorities of Kyrgyzstan to conduct it according to international
standards with the monitoring support of OSCE and others. The ministers also discussed coordination of U.S. and
Russian humanitarian assistance and other support to Kyrgyzstan to help its authorities restore security, stability, and
reconciliation among all citizens of Kyrgyzstan.
 --- 

Roger that.
 --- 

Russian MFA plans to release a parallel press statement shortly and is faxing us the text.
 --- 

From haim.
 --- 

MS -- As you may recall,
Do you think that would work?
Lona Valmoro
S • ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

Below is a readout of Mitchell's meeting with Ashton. Recommendation is for you to
I've sent points to Huma.
David followed up with Russian envoy who hadn't heard from Lavrov, but David feels comfortable having you
B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
— Declassify on: 06/19/2035
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
INTERNATIONAL NEWS #843
June 21, 2010
by Rex Wockner
Iceland legalizes same-sex marriage
The Icelandic parliament, Albingi, legalized same-sex marriage June 11. The vote was 49-0. Fourteen MPs
skipped the vote.
Same-sex couples will be able to marry starting June 27.
The registered-partnership apparatus that gay couples used in the past will no longer be available.
The national LGBT association, Samtokin 78, said Iceland had removed the last obstacle to equal rights for all.
Iceland is the ninth nation where same-sex couples can marry nationwide and the 11th nation where same-sex
marriage is possible.
Icelandic Prime Minister Johanna Siguroardottir is openly lesbian.
Gay marriage also is legal in Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, South Africa, Spain,
Sweden, Mexico City, Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont and Washington, D.C.
 --- 

Below is the final text of the Quartet statement, which Lavrov, Ban, and Ashton have now agreed to release *without a
call.* Sounds like your discussion with Lavrov did the trick:
The Quartet re-affirms that the current situation in Gaza, including the humanitarian and human rights situation of the
civilian population, is unsustainable, unacceptable, and not in the interests of any of those concerned. The Quartet
reiterates its call for a solution that addresses Israel's legitimate security concerns, including an end to weapons
smuggling into Gaza; promotes Palestinian unity based on the Palestine Liberation Organization commitments and the
reunification of Gaza and the West Bank under the legitimate Palestinian Authority; and ensures the unimpeded flow of
humanitarian aid, commercial goods and persons to and from Gaza, consistent with United Nations Security Council
resolution 1860 (2009). The Quartet declares its readiness to work closely with Israel, the Palestinian Government and
international donors in order to achieve sustainable economic development on the basis of the full implementation of
the Agreement on Access and Movement of 2005 and in the broader perspective of the two-state solution.
Consistent with these objectives, the Quartet and the Quartet Representative have worked with Israel, as well as
consulting the Palestinian Authority, Egypt, and other concerned parties, to effect a fundamental change in policy in
Gaza. The new policy towards Gaza just announced by the Government of Israel is a welcome development. The Quartet
notes that the elaboration of further details and modalities of implementation will be important in ensuring the
effectiveness of the new policy. Full and effective implementation will comprise a significant shift in strategy towards
meeting the needs of Gaza's population for humanitarian and commercial goods, civilian reconstruction and
infrastructure, and legitimate economic activity as well as the security needs of Israel. The Quartet will continue to work
with Israel, the Palestinian Authority, and other concerned parties to ensure these arrangements are implemented as
quickly as possible. The Quartet affirms that much work remains to achieve fully the solution stated above, and, in
consultation with the concerned parties, it will monitor closely the implementation of the policy in all its aspects. It will
actively explore additional ways to improve the situation in Gaza, encourage involvement of the PA at the crossings and
promote greater commerce between the West Bank and Gaza.
The Quartet stresses the importance of United Nations and other international interventions, as well as the work of local
non-governmental organizations, to be expanded in Gaza to meet urgent civilian needs, and calls on all parties to fully
enable this work.
The Quartet recognizes that Israel has legitimate security concerns that must continue to be safeguarded, and believes
efforts to maintain security while enabling movement and access for Palestinian people and goods are critical. The
Quartet commits to work with Israel and the international community to prevent the illicit trafficking of arms and
ammunition into Gaza. It urges all those wishing to deliver goods to do so through established channels so that their
cargo can be inspected and transferred via land crossings into Gaza. The Quartet emphasizes that there is no need for
unnecessary confrontations and calls on all parties to act responsibly in meeting the needs of the people of Gaza.
The Quartet also calls for an end to the deplorable detention of Gilad Shalit in advance of the fourth anniversary of his
capture on June 25; it further condemns the violation of Hamas' international obligation to provide him access by the
International Committee of the Red Cross and demands that Hamas immediately remedy the situation.
The Quartet also reiterates its support for proximity talks toward the resumption, without pre-conditions, of direct
bilateral negotiations that resolve all final status issues as previously agreed by the parties. The Quartet believes these
negotiations should lead to a settlement, negotiated between the parties within 24 months, that ends the occupation
which began in 1967 and results in the emergence of an independent, democratic, and viable Palestinian state in the
West Bank and Gaza, living side by side in peace and security with Israel and its other neighbours.
 --- 

FYI. Good news on at least one front.
jm
 --- 

Gates
He advances a powerful vision of integrated civilian power w/ State and USAID under you in his Foreign Affairs article. I
don't think you need to get into the State/AID details w/ him, but it wd be great to give him a heads up that you think
that the PSD as written moves toward 3 separate pillars of defense, development, and diplomacy rather than reinforcing
the integrated power frame of the Nat. Security Strategy. AM
 --- 

This is just fyi for my out of office planning/scheduling purposes:
22 June (T): afternoon in NY
2Ju1 — 9Jul: annual leave
19Jul — 23Jul: travel with S
25Aug — 27 Aug/1 Sep — 3Sep (T): out of office
1 Sep: Haiti travel
 --- 


 --- 

SECURITY COUNCIL PRESIDENTIAL STATEMENT ON THE RECENT INCIDENT IN THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN
The Security Council deeply regrets the loss of life and injuries resulting from the use of force during the Israeli military
operation in international waters against the convoy sailing to Gaza. The Council, in this context, condemns those acts
which resulted in the loss of at least ten civilians and many wounded, and expresses its condolences to their
families. The Security Council requests the immediate release of the ships as well as the civilians held by Israel. The
Council urges Israel to permit full consular access, to allow the countries concerned to retrieve their deceased and
wounded immediately, and to ensure the delivery of humanitarian assistance from the convoy to its destination. The
Security Council takes note of the statement of the UN Secretary—General on the need to have a full investigation into
the matter and it calls for a prompt, impartial, credible and transparent investigation conforming to international
standards. The Security Council stresses that the situation in Gaza is not sustainable. The Council re-emphasizes the
importance of the full implementation of Resolutions 1850 and 1860. In that context, it reiterates its grave concern at
the humanitarian situation in Gaza and stresses the need for sustained and regular flow of goods and people to Gaza as
well as unimpeded provision and distribution of humanitarian assistance throughout Gaza. The Security Council
underscores that the only viable solution to Israeli-Palestinian conflict is an agreement negotiated between the parties
and re-emphasizes that only a two-State solution, with an independent and viable Palestinian State living side by side in
peace and security with Israel and its other neighbours, could bring peace to the region. The Security Council expresses
support for the proximity talks and voices concern that this incident took place while the proximity talks are underway
and urges the parties to act with restraint, avoiding any unilateral and provocative actions, and all international partners
to promote an atmosphere of cooperation between the parties and throughout the region.
 --- 

Yes
 --- 

I am on travel and will not return to the office until the afternoon of June 1. I will be reviewing e-mail intermittently. If
you need immediate assistance please contact Marisa McAuliffe by phone at 202-647-2972 or email at
McauliffeM5@state.gov.
 --- 

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA@state.gov>
Tuesday, June 1, 2010 6:08 AM
Sullivan, Jacob J
Text of EU-Russia statement on Gaza to be issued later today
Here is the text of the statement that will be released at the EU-Russia Summit. 1.4(D)
B1
1.4(B)
"The EU and Russia regret the loss of lives during the Israeli military operation against the Flotilla sailing to Gaza. The EU
and Russia demand a full and impartial inquiry of the events and circumstances. The EU and Russia call for immediate
opening of crossings for the flow of humanitarian aid, commercial goods and people to and from Gaza."
 --- 

I will be out of the office and not checking email Friday, May 28, 2010; Our offices will be closed Monday, May 31. I will be back
in the office Tuesday, June 1.
/
 --- 

Call anytime. Sid
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

Bill will be at prebrief, then has speech on India. Still checking with Jim.
 --- 

Ebeling, Betsy.
Tuesday, June 1, 2010 9:12 AM
H
RE:
 --- 


 --- 

June 1,2010
For: Hillary
 --- 

Madam Secretary,
In advance of your meeting tomorrow with George Soros, below is some information in response to the letter you
received from Soros proposing increased USG support for the American University of Central Asia (AUCA). SCA favors
providing more USG support for AUCA
Since 9/11 the United States has provided more than $15 million to AUCA in support of its endowment and various
other initiatives. For a majority of these contributions the Soros Foundation matched one dollar for every two dollars
provided by the USG. The major USG contributions to AUCA were two grants to the university endowment, the first in
2003 for $10 million, the second in 2008 for $3 million. Other USG support for AUCA included funding for two advisors to
the AUCA president on accreditation and development, support for the journalism faculty, and scholarship funds for
students from Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Afghanistan to attend the university.
Soros has proposed that the USG increase this support, offering a 1-1 match of $10 million each from State and his
foundation, totaling $20 million over the next five years. Last fall SCA received the same proposal from Soros, and they
have been discussing the issue with Soros' staff.
A little bit of additional information from SCA on AUCA: The university has made significant progress this year on a
number of its key objectives and remains a unique institution in Central Asia, a place where students are judged solely
on merit and a forum for free expression and critical thinking. The university achieved an important milestone this year
related to its U.S. accreditation, signing an agreement with Bard College under which AUCA graduates starting next May
will receive full diplomas from Bard College, an institution accredited in the United States. In addition, AUCA recently
established a new partnership with the American University in Kabul facilitated through state of the art video classroom
technology and recently announced the appointment of Andrew Wachtel, from Northwestern University, as the new
AUCA president who will take office this summer.
I will include this note (in addition to Soros' letter) in your materials for your meeting with Soros tomorrow. Please let
me know if you would like any further information.
Thanks,
Mike
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-1709
 --- 

Your wish is my command ...
 --- 

I will prepare for you to sign tomorrow. I just love her sense of humor!
 --- 

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence *En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:30 am BI-WEEKLY MEETING w/MANAGEMENT TEAM
10:00 am Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
10:00 am WEEKLY MEETING w/UNDER SECRETARIES
10:45 ant Secretary's Conference Room
10:50 am VIDEOS (6)
11:10 am George Marshall Room, '7th Floor
11:15 am PHOTOS(4 groups)
11:30 am Secretary's Outer Office
11:30 am GROUP PHOTO w/VISITING MIDDLE EAST DEMOCRACY
11:40 am ACTIVISTS PARTICIPATING IN MIDDLE EAST PARTNERSHIP INITIATIVE
Treaty Room, 7th Floor
11:45 am OFFICE TIME
12:30 pm Secretary's Office
12:30 pm MEETING w/JACK LEW
1:00 pm Secretary's Office
1:15 pm MEETING w/JEFF FELTMAN
1:45 pm Secretary's Office
1:45 pm MEETING w/ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER
2:15 pm Secretary's Office
2:30 pm MEETING w/INDIAN EDUCATION MINISTER KAPIL SIBAL
2:45 pm Secretary's Conference Room
3:00 pm PRE-BRIEF FOR THE INDIA STRATEGIC DIALOGUE
4:00 pm Secretary's Office
4:00 pm MEETING w/SANDY VVEILL
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:45 pm MEETING w/GEORGE SOROS
5:15 pm Secretary's Office
5:30 pm MEETING w/MELANNE VERVEER
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:15 pm (t) DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
6:25 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence ###
 --- 

"It was worse than a crime. It was a blunder." Talleyrand.
 --- 

Gaza: it's Hamas's move now
Hamas must seize the initiative if there is ever to be an end to Israel's occupation of Palestine
•
•
c) Jeremy Greenstock
o quardian.co.uk, Wednesday 2 June 2010 12.29 BST
So it has happened again. Nearly 18 months after the Israelis bombed Gaza to a wasteland, with barely a load of building
materials allowed in since then, Turkey has taken the brunt of an operation of humanitarian assistance gone wrong.
The UN must establish the facts impartially and independently and, if laws have been broken, those responsible must be
held to account. Political demonstrations posing as relief flotillas go wrong too easily and Israel understandably has to
prevent weapons being smuggled into Gaza. But was this really the best way to bring the ships to shore for examination?
A commando attack on civilian ships looks callous and disproportionate. No one should have been hurt, whatever the
emotions behind all this.
Why is Gaza under siege in the first place? Under international law, the Israelis are responsible as the occupying force for
the proper administration of the territory; and half the point of Israel is not to be above the law. Yet they are creating a
traumatised territory of 1.5m neighbours, many of whose children seem to want to grow up to be suicide bombers. They
are also pouring fertiliser on al-Qaida's ground.
The director of UNRWA operations in Gaza, John Ging, gave a speech in London this week entitled "Illegal, inhuman. and
insane: a medieval siege on Gaza in 2010". This objective humanitarian practitioner should be listened to. How has Israel,
the only democracy in its region and a symbol of the need for racially inspired violence to end, come to risk any claim to
international legitimacy in its handling of this situation?
Hamas are the enemy of Israel, but they do not have to be. They preach violent resistance too readily, yet over the past
17 months they have been trying to control the militant groups intent on threatening Israel with rockets — imperfectly
perhaps, but not a single Israeli citizen has been killed (alas, one immigrant worker was) by a rocket since the Gaza
bombing stopped in January 2009. They are also the implacable opponents of al-Qaida. They won a fair election in 2006
and claim to respect democracy. Let's test them on that. At present, Hamas security people are being sniped at by the
Israeli Defence Forces when they try to arrest other militant groups. This is genuinely getting insane.
The unwisdom of reliance on angry military responses is all the clearer when the mood in Palestine, in both the West
Bank and Gaza, is steadily moving towards a negotiated end to the occupation. I am convinced from my own direct
experience that Hamas is prepared to establish and respect a long-term ceasefire so that the talking can start without the
threat of violence, and that they would enter in good faith, if that were reciprocated, into negotiations to establish two
states in the disputed territories, Israel and Palestine, with their own rights and responsibilities under international law.
The distortion of their position, a little of it the fault of their own PR, does no side any good.
If a comprehensive negotiation is too much to expect for now, what about a first step? I believe an arrangement to end the
blockade is within reach if only Israel, Egypt and Gaza would test the possibilities of dialogue. Hamas have indicated that
they could cease all attacks on Israeli soil, close the tunnels, release Gilead Shalit and stop the import of arms into Gaza if
the blockade was ended, an agreed number of Palestinian prisoners were released and Gaza began to be rebuilt.
The Palestinians of course have work to do on their own internal reconciliation, while the relationship between Fatah in
the West Bank and Hamas in Gaza remains so bad. But the UN, the US, Russia, the EU and the Arab world must make a
much more serious attempt to test the possibilities, putting ordinary Israelis and Palestinians first, not their own political
comfort.
We are coming close to losing the chance of a two-state solution. US policy, based on a West-Bank-only approach, is
locked in a cul-de-sac if Gaza is left out of the equation, because majority Palestinian support will be lacking. Israel is
confident in the knowledge that it cannot be militarily defeated.
But that ignores the huge danger of losing the political, diplomatic, legal and moral high ground. This matters in today's
world, as the US and the UK discovered in Iraq, because government authority and public opinion interact closely, and
legitimacy breeds support.
Israel's relationship with Turkey was the key to a broader understanding with the Islamic community and others beyond
the west. That now lies in tatters. If Israel is left as the permanent occupier, or controlling a one-state structure with part of
its population downgraded or imprisoned, it will truly be a disaster for its people and what they stand for.
I hope that Hamas will not sit back and enjoy Israel's discomfiture. They have so far, for a political organisation, attracted
much too narrow a range of international support. If they wish to be widely accepted as a negotiating partner, they must
unequivocally accept the only fully justified condition set by the international Quartet — the cessation of violence —
underline that their objective is a two-state settlement, and win international friends for the ending of the occupation. In
whoever's hands, bombs, bullets, rockets and iron bars will achieve nothing. But a push for justice will.
•This article was originally written for the Times but not published
 --- 

FYI:
USIBC Launches New Education Initiative to Strengthen K-12, Vocational, and Higher Education Linkages in the U.S. and
India
June 2, 2010 - Washington, DC - On the occasion of its 35th anniversary, and looking ahead to the global economy of
the future, the U.S.-India Business Council (USIBC) today announced the launch of a new initiative aimed at
strengthening institutional linkages between academia, industry and NGOs focusing on the elementary, vocational and
higher education sectors in both countries.
"The United States and India must be committed partners in building the workforce of tomorrow, a partnership that will
unleash opportunity, spur growth and sustain prosperity not just in our countries but across the global community," said
Harold McGraw III, incoming USIBC Chairman and Chairman, President and CEO of The McGraw-Hill Companies. "To do
this, we must focus on strengthening our educational ties at every level. By working together our two countries can
equip the next generation with the education and skills necessary to compete and win in the global economy."
Mr. McGraw gave the keynote address before a packed audience of over 400 U.S. and Indian business, government, and
education leaders at USIBC's 35th Anniversary Summit, entitled "A Pivotal Period in U.S.-India Relations: Tackling
Education, Infrastructure and Inclusive Growth."
On the eve of the first-ever U.S.-India Strategic Dialogue, India's Union Minister of External Affairs, SM Krishna, U.S.
Education Secretary Arne Duncan, India's Minister of Human Resource Development, Kapil Sibal, and India's Ambassador
to the United States, Meera Shankar, joined hundreds of top business leaders in Washington to participate in the U.S.-
India Business Council 35th anniversary deliberations.
USIBC's Education Initiative will serve as a dynamic platform for business, NGOs, and academia to provide vital input into
both the U.S. and Indian governments - such that the synergies between American and Indian business and educational
communities are unleashed.
"We can talk about strategic, defense, civil nuclear, renewable energy and every other type of commercial cooperation,
but if we do not develop the skill sets in our respective societies to sustain such collaboration, all this talk will never be
successfully converted to action," Ron Somers, President of the U.S.-India Business Council, noted. "How fortunate it is
that families across all walks of life in both our societies so highly value education. We have much to learn from one
another, and much to accomplish - to prepare for the challenges of the 21st Century," Somers said.
The USIBC Education initiative will focus on three thrust areas:
1. Higher Education: USIBC will host the U.S.-India Higher Education Forum (HEF) at the invitation of the U.S. and
Indian governments. The HEF will serve as the premier platform to enlist academia, industry and NGOs to strengthen
linkages between U.S. and Indian educational institutions from both countries. The HEF will provide a formalized
network for industry, academia and the NGO community to provide direct policy input to the U.S. and Indian
governments in all areas of education, with an aim to facilitate greater collaboration, including the opening of India's
higher education sector.
2. Elementary K-12 Education : USIBC has embarked on a survey of rural and urban, private and public K-12 schools
throughout India to identify best practices that are working well in educating students, while assessing needs where
industry, NGOs and government may join together to fill gaps. With the support of Ryan International Group, one of
India's leading educators, both financial and intellectual resources will be mobilized to transform these and other
schools in a manner that promotes replication of successful models across India.
3. Vocational Training and Skills Development : USIBC will partner with its member-companies to feature Case
Studies of Vocational Training and Skills Development that are being implemented across India. The exercise will
attempt to enlist more corporations to participate in this important area of human capacity building. Programs helping
to train thousands of workers will generate employment opportunities and sustain economic growth now and for the
long future - in both countries.
India is embarked on expanding its community college system, including technical training institutions, as well as inviting
interest in implementing 30,000 new colleges and 1,500 universities over the next decade.
The United States continues to be the most sought after destination for Indian students studying overseas, attracting as
many as 113,000 each year to American universities and colleges. The U.S. wishes to remain a magnet for attracting the
best and the brightest from around the world by promoting institutional partnerships between U.S. based educational
institutions and new counterparts. Integral to this core knowledge infrastructure, industry must be involved in this
enterprise.
The McGraw-Hill Companies (NYSE: MHP) is a global information and education company providing knowledge, insights
and analysis in the financial, education and business information sectors through leading brands including Standard &
Poor's, McGraw-Hill Education, J.D. Power and Associates and Platts. McGraw-Hill established business operations in
India 40 years ago. Through its partnership with CRISIL, India's leading ratings, research, and risk and policy advisory
company, Standard & Poor's is helping facilitate access to capital to drive economic growth and job creation in the
country. Through its partnership with Tata, McGraw-Hill Education is delivering innovative, digital solutions to help
workers acquire the 21st century skills they need to succeed in today's global economy. India is home to McGraw-Hill's
largest employee population outside of the U.S. and is the company's fourth largest market.
The U.S.-India Business Council, formed in 1975 at the request of the Government of India and the U.S. Government to
advance commercial ties between the world's two largest free-market democracies, is hosted under the aegis of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world's largest business federation representing more
than 3 million businesses and organizations of every size, sector, and region. The U.S.-India Business Council celebrates
its 35th Anniversary at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on June 2, 2010 in Washington, D.C. For more information please
visit www.usibc.com .
www.usibc.com
 --- 

Strobe Talbott •
Wednesday, June 2, 2010 6:21 PM
'Cheryl Mills.; Jake Sullivan (DOS)
follow up on Afghan matter
Hillary, as promised, I connected with Bruce Jones at NYU about Spanta. Bruce got in touch offered to help Spanta put
together an arrangement at NYU that might have a Brookings offshoot. Spanta said he needed to decide with Karzai
whether in fact the timing was right for him to leave. He just got back in touch with Bruce saying he's decided to stay on
a bit longer. That said, he's agreed to participate in some Track II regional work that Bruce has underway. All in all, it
sounds as though this has ended up in the right place for now. Bruce, Martin and I will be open to other NY/DC
possibilities down the road when Spanta's situation changes. Thanks again for the truly terrific event at Brookings.
Regards, Strobe
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

I am currently traveling outside of the country with limited access to email. If you need immediate assistance, please
contact Nora Toiv (ToivNF@state.gov) or Joanne Laszczych, (Laszczych.l@state.gov) at 202-647-5548.
If it is an emergency after business hours, please reach out to our Operations Center to have them reach me.
Thank you
cdm
 --- 

the world together-"Fourth Turning"...might want to re-read the ending chapters of Neil
Howe and Bill Strauss book-love you so
Ok
 --- 

Nothing that can't keep. Actually somewhat quiet night.
 --- 

Will track down
 --- 

Fyi — cir to team for addressing as appropriate
 --- 

John Ryan; Susan Mcnamara;
Corrine Ebeling; Delano, Omorinsola; Claps,
Boys home closing, but numbers don't tell full story
By Burt Constable I Daily Herald Columnist
Published: 6/3/2010 12:01 AM
When the goal is turning around lives of young abused and neglected boys, filling out the scoresheet
is more complicated than simply marking wins or losses.
For the past 15 years, Ann G. Deuel has lived in Arlington Heights, but her heart has resided in Jamal
Place, a three-story graystone at 1335 S. California Ave. in the North Lawndale neighborhood of
Chicago. As a founder and executive director of Jamal Place, Deuel can tell countless stories about
the boys, ages 11 to 17, who have spent time in the group home and about the army of suburbanites
from St. Charles, Naperville, Lake Zurich and Lisle who have volunteered, donated and served on the
board to help those kids. Lots of people in that field have good things to say about Deuel and Jamal
Place.
But when the new fiscal year begins on July 1, the Illinois Department of Children and Family
Services will not renew its contract with Jamal Place, forcing those kids to go to other facilities.
"To shut us down and deny kids this opportunity is unconscionable," says Deuel, as she takes a deep
breath and dabs at her eyes in an attempt to keep her emotions in check.
She and her staff operated last year through a $1,041,000 contract with DCFS to provide a group
home for 10 wards of the state. They've carved out a wonderful reputation in 15 years, so what
happened?
The easy answer is that DCFS put the group home under a new performance-based contracting
system that determined Jamal Place fell short of benchmarks for keeping kids from running away,
requiring hospitalization or ending up in juvenile detention.
"Taxpayers expect and deserve positive results in the children we serve," says DCFS spokesman
Kendall Marlowe. Jamal Place simply didn't measure up in the areas the state measures.
Because Illinois has trimmed the number of wards of the state from a high of 52,000 in 1997 to only
15,500, a much higher percentage of those kids have mental illnesses, substance abuse or other
problems. Since the state measures an agency's performance by days that the kids are physically
present in the home, Jamal Place, with its small population, got bad marks when a child was
hospitalized for a mental-health issue or detained by a judge.
"We did what was clinically advisable for these children and we got dinged for it," says Brian Barclay,
assistant executive director of Jamal Place. "We did what was in kids' best interest."
There is no consideration given for "incremental improvements in youth behavior, which occur as
trusting relationships develop," Deuel notes. "I wish they could find a way to measure the individual
aspects."
When compared with similar facilities, Jamal Place graded lower, Marlowe says, adding that it "isn't a
happy day" when the state ends an agreement with a facility that has "good people" and has done
"good work" in the past. He says DCFS did renew a contract with Deuel for a different transitional
living facility that serves an older population.
One of Jamal Place's "unfavorable" outcomes involves a kid who already had a criminal record when
he came to the group home at age 14. Now 17, he says he ended up in juvenile court after he made a
mistake by hanging with the wrong people on the day when he stole a woman's purse.
"I've got a good relationship with the staff and residents. We did things as a family," says the teen,
who now is living with a grandmother. "I love my grandmother, but I'd rather be at Jamal Place. I'm
trying to do everything in my power to get back to Jamal Place."
Intangibles aren't part of the bureaucratic process. There isn't a place on an evaluation form to give
credit to Deuel and her staff for leading the effort that closed a local "crack house." There's no way to
measure the improvements in a former resident that led him for the first time to sign "love" before his
name on the Mother's Day card he sent Deuel this year. There's no scoresheet for the local gang
leader who stopped preying on Jamal kids when he was confronted by Deuel and recognized her as
the woman who gave him a Christmas present a few years earlier. The interview for this story is
interrupted when that man calls Deuel, who is helping him find a legitimate job.
"It is enormously frustrating to me that the attachment the boys develop with our staff members is not
a 'measurable' outcome," Deuel says. "These are our children. Long after DCFS is done with these
kids, our door is still open."
Last weekend, many former residents came back to explain how Jamal Place helped them. On June
26, Jamal Place will celebrate its 15th anniversary with a picnic and walkathon in Douglas Park,
across the street from the home. Deuel and her staff are hoping DCFS finds a way to give them more
time, another year to continue its mission.
"I've always maintained that God won't let us fail," says Deuel. "For 15 years, that's been the case,
and now we've got this challenge."
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 

7:30 Ukranian Foreign Minister Gryshchenko
8 Greek Prime Minister Papandreou
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH©state.gov>
Friday, June 4, 2010 7:21 AM
H
Fyi
 --- 

I've already asked him. Waiting to hear back
 --- 

little more time.
 --- 

Roger - will do.
 --- 

June 4, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

Background on the Women Deliver Conference CONTEXT The second Women Deliver conference will take place in
Washington, DC on June 7-9, 2010. This conference is an international gathering that focuses on maternal health and
will include an estimated 3,000 representatives from governments, civil society, multilateral organizations, and the
private sector. The aim of the conference is to generate political commitment and financial investment for fulfilling
Millennium Development Goal 5, which pledges a three-quarter reduction in maternal mortality and universal access to
reproductive health by 2015. The conference is one of several international gatherings this year that will include a focus
on maternal and child health (MCH). As you know, this issue will also feature at the G-8, where the Canadians are
offering a flagship initiative on MCH, and at the Millennium Development Goals Summit in September, where the UN
Secretary General is sponsoring a Joint Effort on Women and Children's Health. The US will be represented at the
Women Deliver conference by Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, Undersecretary of State Maria
Otero, Ambassador Melanne Verveer, and a host of other USG participants. Please note: You recently recorded a video
message that will open the conference.
The full script is below.
SUGGESTED TALKING POINTS
• For too long and in too many places, women have received inadequate care when they give birth. As a result,
childbirth remains a leading cause of death and injury to women worldwide. • The United States has elevated the
issue of maternal health in our development work through the Global Health Initiative, a $63 billion dollar proposal to
help countries improve health outcomes through strengthened health systems and integrated service delivery, with a
particular focus on the health of women, newborns and children. This conference—along with other international
gatherings this year, including the G-8 and the Millennium Development Goals Summit in September—presents a unique
opportunity to reinvigorate our commitment to maternal health. • When women prosper, their families and
communities prosper. Women deliver for the world – now the world needs to deliver for them. ADDITIONAL
BACKGROUND The theme of this year's Women Deliver conference is "Delivering Solutions for Girls and Women," with a
focus on political, economic, social/cultural, and technological solutions. Conference organizers plan to emphasize the
following messages:1) The Millennium Development Goals will not be achieved without investing in
women.2) There is just enough time, if the world commits funding now, to achieve Millennium Development Goal 5—
an additional US $10 billion annually by 2010 and US $20 billion by 2015.Women Deliver was launched at a conference
in London in 2007. Jill Sheffield is the President of the organization.
FINAL VIDEO SCRIPT WOMEN DELIVER CONFERENCEWASHINGTON, DC
I am delighted to welcome all of you to this conference and to thank you for the work you are doing to put maternal
health at the top of our development agenda. Your commitment to this issue has raised awareness and inspired action
around the world. We know that women represent our greatest opportunity for progress in this century. If the potential
of women is fully developed, everyone benefits. And this can't be done without improving maternal health. But for too
long and in too many places, women have received inadequate care when they give birth. As a result, childbirth remains
a leading cause of death and injury to women worldwide. The United States has elevated this issue in our development
work through the Global Health Initiative, a 63 billion dollar proposal to help countries improve health outcomes
through strengthened health systems, with a particular focus on the health of women, newborns and children. We
commend the Canadian government for focusing much-needed attention to this issue by offering a flagship initiative on
maternal and child health at the upcoming G-8 meeting in Muskoka. The US also congratulates the United Nations
Secretary General for convening governments, civil society, multilateral organizations, foundations and corporations to
engage in a much-needed global effort to promote women's and children's health. These efforts—and this conference—
present a unique opportunity to reinvigorate our commitment to maternal health, because when women prosper, their
families and communities prosper. Women deliver for the world – now the world needs to deliver for them. Thank you.
 --- 

FYI per your question yesterday.
 --- 

Fyi
bent. rn Jun V+ LU..5.5.‘fi Lulu
Subject: Back Operation
 --- 

From Landler today, middle of the piece -- not too much to it:
Israel also took issue with the Obama administration's assertion that the United States had warned Israeli
officials to exercise caution and restraint in intercepting the flotilla.
"I was not contacted by anyone in the administration about this," said Michael B. Oren, Israel's ambassador to
the United States. Mr. Oren said he was not aware that anybody else in the Israeli government had been called
and was seeking clarification from the administration.
A spokesman for the State Department, Philip J. Crowley, said the United States had "extensive contacts" with
Israel and Turkey before the flotilla set sail. "We expressed to the Israelis the need for caution and restraint in
dealing with civilians, including American citizens," he said.
 --- 

From an INR report just released:
Western Europe: Publics Credit U.S. for Relief to Haiti
Britons, French, Germans, Italians, and Spaniards say the United States has done more than other countries to assist
Haiti following the devastating January earthquake. Though relief efforts in Haiti have not themselves directly impacted
opinion of the United States, the belief that the United States generally assists disaster-stricken countries does positively
affect U.S. image.
 --- 

Good stuff from Medvedev
 --- 

You mentioned at Thursday's 8:45 meeting that you had talked to Qureshi and that he thought he was not going to get
any trade access to the EU. My EU contact writes that the Member States in the EU have been slowing up progress on
trade concessions to Pakistan, although the draft language negotiated w/ Pakistan still leaves room for the Commission
(which is pro-trade) to keep working on enhanced trade benefits for Pakistan. Still, the original timetable of 2011 will not
be kept. Even more ominous, any agreement will have to go to the European Parliament, which is down on Pakistan for
human rights reasons.
I have also read Esther's note to you on UN Security Council Reform. You are right that overall our best position for the
moment is
Have a good trip!
AM
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA@state.gov>
Sunday, June 6,2010 11:46 AM
Sullivan, Jacob J
Fw: Washington Post "Outlook" Article
2010.06.06.WashPostisraeli Narrative.doc
You'll want to make sure you see this. AM
 --- 


 --- 

fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Sunday, June 6, 2010 4:21 PM
H; Mills, Cheryl D
Huma Abedin
Re: Brief memo for Cheryl Mills on Colombia - for Secretary Clinton
We are planning to find a careful but effective way to address progress on human rights issues and continuing
challenges in your press avail. We will explain it to the Colombians and highlight it for Cindy. We can also read out your
meetings to her.
 --- 

Ebeling, Betsy
Monday, June 7, 2010 9:30 AM
RE: Sad news
We cannot seem to change DCFS' decision and it looks as though it will close. You were the first recipient of their yearly
honor. Where will these boys go?
 --- 

Cherie Blair <
Monday, June 7, 2010 9:57 AM
confidential
As you know I have good links to the Qataris. Sheikha Mosah's son is the 31/32 year old Crown Prince and she is keen
that he starts to build a wider international profile. He has been appointed head of the Qatar National Food Security
Programme which is designed to deal with Qatar's food security issues its a $30 billion programme. He is aware that
food security is an issue you are majoring on and would love to meet with you in person to discuss this and to explore
potential partnership areas between US and Qatar including possible participation in the US/World Bank Food Security
Fund. He is also keen to talk more generally about US/Qatari cooperation and even suggested they could help out with
the Oil spill problem. There is apparently a Arab Food Security Summit in October 2010 and he would like to discuss Us
participation in that too.
IS a meeting possible he is more flexible on place and times than his mother! Or maybe we could set up an initial phone
call.
Can you let me know if this appeals to you at all?
Cherie Blair
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Saw that you are on phone
Let me know if u need anything.
 --- 

Ordering now.
 --- 

Thanks, Gertie, for the very sweet effort. I know such great women, lucky me.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Welcome back. I sent to your house a small binder of material in preparation for the Dodd/Berman meeting tomorrow
morning. I am happy to walk you through any part of it or answer any questions tonight or first thing in the morning.
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA©state.gov>
Friday, June 11, 2010 4:05 PM
Sullivan, Jacob J; Mills, Cheryl D
A clarification on Turkey/Brazil
AM
 --- 

Our clips service doesn't have the license necessary to provide FT (or Reuters) content, so here's the long awaited FT
profile -you'll be especially interested in the guest column David Milliband wrote:
An FT interview with Hillary Clinton
By Daniel Dombey
FT
June 11 2010 22:21
This is what it is like to be Hillary Clinton. The motorcade, twisting and skidding through rain-splashed
streets for more than an hour; the public meetings and camera lights at journey's end; the spotlight that
has not let up for two decades. It is almost as if the 2008 US presidential election - hailed as the most
exciting for a generation - had never ended.
But this is a campaign without a vote. Today, Clinton's convoy is snaking through Sao Paulo, Brazil, not
South Hampton, New Hampshire. She herself is no longer an aspirant for the White House, despite what
the overnight flights, town hall meetings and strategy sessions that make up her gruelling schedule might
suggest. Instead, she is in Latin America to shore up relations with the region and promote a new idea of
US leadership, one very much built around herself.
She's had bigger and more ecstatic audiences than the 700-odd students and staff crammed into the hall
tonight at Zumbi dos Pradares, an Afro-Brazilian university, but she's still greeted by a wave of raised
arms as the audience snaps away at her with their mobile phones.
In the convoy moments before, she was wrapped in a shawl, suffering from a cold and angry at the delays
that pushed us into the side streets speckled with box-like bars, warehouses and love hotels while
Brazilian motorists sought to cut into our path. There is no sign of that now. With the metabolism of a
born politician, she feeds off the energy of her audience and takes questions from students, teachers and
local celebrities for an hour. Hillary Clinton never looks happier than when she is centre stage.
Most US secretaries of state wouldn't bother with this sort of event, much less initiate it and arrange for it
to be screened on the biggest local channel. Yet this is what Clinton does on almost every foreign trip -
and she seems to spend half her life on her official 727, crammed with long-time aides and armed
bodyguards. The schedule is backbreaking and constantly shifting. She has notched up more than a
quarter of a million miles since taking office.
On this Latin America trip, thrown into confusion by an earthquake in Chile, we have already visited four
countries in 24 hours. We go to tiny Uruguay, where our stay is so brief we check into a hotel just for a
shower; Argentina, where we spend almost all our time at the presidential palace; Chile itself, where we
don't leave the airport; and Brazil, where we spend almost a full day.
So what exactly is Clinton trying to do on this never-ending world tour? Travelling with her for a week,
talking to people inside and outside the administration, I tried to find out.
"We now have a case to make and it is not just a case that is made to the president or the prime minister
or the foreign minister or an ambassador," she tells me a few weeks later, as she perches on a sofa in her
expansive office, with its view of the Lincoln Memorial. "People now have a voice and an opinion and a
vote in many instances on the direction that their own societies take ... I want to model a different kind of
leadership that is open and willing to listen but [also] to stand our ground if necessary."
She argues that these trips of hers help to restore the US's image in the wake of the Bush administration
- by making contact with public opinion abroad, and so boosting American power. Her aides say that, as a
battle-hardened politician who also happens to be one of the most famous women in the world, she is
ideally placed to carry out the task. But the deeper question is whether she is merely implementing the
foreign policy crafted by Barack Obama, her boss and former rival, or whether her role - and ambitions -
go beyond that.
Is she a kind of saleswoman-in-chief for the US, I ask? "Well, I think that is part of the job," she replies,
toying with the napkin underneath her glass of water. "If you are making a case for American values and
for American leadership, you have to make it where people now get information ... Given the bridges we
had to build and some of the repair work we had to do, we had to travel."
As in S'ao Paulo, her system is under strain - "I've been fighting this all day," she says as she masks a
cough set off by her allergies (Washington's cherry blossom trees are shedding their flowers). Life is still
hectic - the volcanic ash cloud has just all but paralysed Europe and televisions throughout the State
Department are showing the first British election debate. But Clinton remains enthusiastic, affable and
unhurried, her speech peppered with exclamations such as "oh my gosh", even as she discusses issues of
state. She politely asks if I have any updates for her about Europe's airspace shutdown and tells me she's
been talking to Norway's foreign minister about it.
"He said that this dust gets into engines of any size, even Air Force One - it's chunky! I don't know how
else to describe it," she says, an odd note of hilarity entering her voice as she pronounces the word
"chunky".
Clinton often speaks in this eager, unvarnished way - a world away from the clipped, on-message manner
of her immediate predecessor in the post, Condoleezza Rice. If anything, she is an undiplomat - known
less for calibrated circumlocutions than for her plain speaking and sometimes her gaffes, a woman who
retains both a formidable political constituency and a laugh she once admitted can send cats scurrying
from a room.
Her staff point out she is only the third elected politician in 60 years to have served as secretary of state,
and the first to come from outside the foreign policy establishment since James Baker, George H.W.
Bush's right-hand man and perhaps her most illustrious recent predecessor. She may be the most
substantive politician in the office since William Jennings Bryan, the three-time presidential candidate who
served as secretary almost a century ago. "Her stature on the world stage, her almost presidential
stature, has set her apart," Bill Burns, the top career diplomat at the State Department, tells me. "Leaders
want to meet her. And the town hall meetings do make a difference with public opinion."
State visitor Hillary Clinton is greeted by Air Force Base Commander Colonel Celso de Araujo at S'ao Paulo
airport in March
Back in Sao Paulo, the meeting at the university ranges far from the confines and dramatis personae of
traditional diplomacy. Annie, a young woman with red and blue dreadlocked hair, tells Clinton about her
dance and percussion classes and asks how to study in the US without paying college fees. A nervous
young man confesses himself lost halfway through an abstruse question about tariff policy; Clinton,
smiling and nodding in that vaguely automatic way of hers, bears with him all the same. Another female
student asks for an autograph. When answering, Clinton sometimes opens her eyes wide as she
emphasises a phrase; at other moments, seemingly at random, she pulls her hands apart as if
demonstrating the size of a fish.
Then a law student called Marina asks about abortion - which is illegal in Brazil - and Clinton moves into
treacherous terrain. She speaks of the Brazilian hospital she visited in the 1990s that treated not just
expectant mothers but women suffering from the consequences of backstreet abortions. "Wealthy women
have rights in every country," she says. "And poor women don't." Her strength of feeling can't be hidden
as she denounces "the great toll that illegal abortions take and the denial of women being able to exercise
such a fundamental personal right".
Tom Shannon, the US ambassador to Brazil, tells me later: "I understand the possible concern that we
might have come close to domestic issues. But she wasn't laying out a prescription for Brazil. She was
sharing her experience as a woman in American politics and as secretary of state." It's true: Clinton
doesn't quite cross the line. Onstage, she is controlled without seeming artificial, convivial without
appearing over-effusive, what a previous age would call a real trouper. At the podium she looks straight
ahead, her lips carefully expressionless. Still, the old competitive instincts haven't left her. Perhaps it is
the lecterns at press conferences, reminiscent of the Democratic presidential debates, but on exiting the
podium at a joint appearance with Argentina's president Cristina Fernandez, Clinton makes clear her
satisfaction at having had the last word. The expert debater who usually bested Obama has not left the
stage.
Yet that competitive urge coexists with what one insider describes as her "almost inhuman loyalty"
towards Obama. Her mastery of the facts - an "information carnivore" one of her officials calls her -
comes despite the consensus in much of Washington that her role consists largely of implementing the
foreign policy Obama and his inner circle have framed, rather than helping frame it herself.
In Sao Paulo, she shows her loyalty in striking fashion when she is asked repeatedly about positive
discrimination - another sensitive topic in Brazil - not least because, Clinton herself observes, Afro-
Brazilians account for more than half the country's population but only 2 per cent of university students.
"That suggests to me that some special steps need to be taken [in] recruiting and admitting students so
that they can have a chance to succeed," she tells the hall, again inching towards domestic politics, before
speaking of her pride in the progress the US civil rights movement has made in the past half-century. She
says: "The election of Barack Obama, many believe, was the greatest accomplishment of all because it
demonstrated that an African-American could be elected president of the United States."
Among the crowd, I catch my breath and scribble down her words. It's hard to think of a more fulsome
statement from the woman who fought so hard against Obama - and who squandered a huge poll lead
and millions of dollars in the struggle against him.
The great collaborator Clinton has established strong working relationships within the Obama
administration
When I ask Clinton later about how she managed to move from the antagonism of the primary race to the
obedience of office, she dismisses my question with an anodyne "that's politics". She adds: "We're
working really hard and well together ... It just never comes up any more, it seems like ancient history to
me." Not so ancient, I think, that she is willing to admit the failings of her campaign. "I always run
inclusive and successful organisations," she retorts when I ask her whether she'd applied any lessons from
that searing experience to her new post.
She admits she didn't want the job at State - she says she was exhausted by the election and missed the
Senate -. "but at the end of the day, I'm pretty old-fashioned and if the president asks you to do
something, you'd better have a really good reason why you can't." Also, she adds: "Suppose I had won
and I were asking him to be in my cabinet ... I would have wanted him to say yes."
Others say the relationship is more complex, that by dint of her loyalty and unflagging hard work, Clinton
has moved closer to the charmed circle and made herself an even more formidable political force than
before. "Quite simply, she gives good advice and the president over a year and a half has recognised
that," says Anne-Marie Slaughter, head of the State Department policy planning unit. "The relationship is
based on her performance in the job."
By all accounts, it's a collaborative partnership, though not perhaps a warm one. Clinton boasts a good
working relationship with the main players of the administration - and has formed something of an
alliance with defence secretary Robert Gates, although on life-and-death issues such as Afghanistan, it is
Gates, not her, who has taken the lead. As one official told me, secretaries of state have often either been
popular with their own department - Colin Powell comes to mind - or with the rest of the administration -
as was Condoleezza Rice - but Clinton has managed to be both.
In truth, Clinton's language remains harder-edged than Obama's - she recently claimed that Iran's
Revolutionary Guard had staged a slow-motion coup - and she has sometimes been more willing than he
is to hint at using the military. "She seems to step up with a bit of spine just at the right time," says Kurt
Volker, a US ambassador to Nato under George W. Bush.
She has also assumed an ever more prominent role in talking to leaders such as Benjamin Netanyahu of
Israel and Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan - apparently because she is trusted both by them and Obama.
Meanwhile, she has been careful to keep her husband, the former US president, in the background. Aides
say they have barely seen him in the building - though Clinton herself says that behind the scenes Bill
Clinton gives her strategic advice. "One of his favourite sayings, that I remind myself of all the time, is a
kind of baseball saying," she says: "Don't major in the minors; keep your eye on not just the headlines
but the trend lines."
It is her co-operative stance rather than any notable effort to set out a grand vision of her own that is the
chief theme of her time so far at State. When I ask Clinton to name her proudest achievement in office,
she replies "the effective and collaborative approach that this administration has taken towards identifying
and solving problems." A more process-oriented, less provocative answer would be hard to imagine.
But maybe, I think, the US has less scope for grand strategy than it did in the past couple of decades,
when the country seemed to bestride the world colossus-style. Clinton herself suggests that so formidable
are the tasks confronting the US that the administration has little scope to enter into internecine fights but
needs instead to focus on the challenges to hand. Whatever the reason for her stance, it seems to be a
smart decision - by all accounts she's overcome many of the suspicions the White House retinue had
towards her.
"It's fair to say that she was not born into the administration's inner circle but slowly but surely, for the
most consequential decisions, she now has a prime seat at the table," says one official. Praising what he
calls her "Terminator-quality durability and determination," he adds: "She's done an amazing amount of
work, judging that the way to build a strategic vision is bottom up, by mastering the details."
Indeed, Clinton's ability to master the most arcane foreign policy briefs is the marvel of her building. She
has dropped into obscure working groups and shown an unnerving knowledge of their details. At her
confirmation hearings last year she exchanged facts about the arctic with an Alaskan senator; at the
meeting in So Paulo she becomes enthused about freight transport policy both in Brazil and the US. She
herself acknowledges that finding her feet on foreign policy was something of a struggle, despite her
campaign claims of expertise in the field. "It was so intellectually challenging, just to get our arms around
all of these issues," she says. During her first year, she was criticised for apparent gaffes - including the
way she called for Israel to halt all building of settlements on occupied territory only to hail a partial freeze
a few months later as unprecedented. On an election campaign, she says, "you may be in a different city
four times a day but you have a message you're trying to deliver that is repetitive and aimed at your
audience. But here you might deal with 10 different countries' problems, six different regional or global
challenges in the course of a day."
As the Latin America tour shows, she is now trying to do both - travel incessantly and solve an array of
international issues. She is at the forefront of the US's efforts to consolidate relations with a number of
important countries - predominantly Russia and China, but also rising powers such as Brazil, Turkey,
Indonesia and South Africa - and to cool down anti-American feeling in hotspots, notably Pakistan. She
says the push is working, hailing a "change in public opinion in places that were pretty negative about the
US" - a reference to Russia and Pakistan. But it is far from smooth sailing. Differences about Iran and
over Israel's raid on aid-bearing ships off Gaza have stoked tensions with Turkey and Brazil recently, amid
questioning of the effectiveness of the Obama administration's policies.
During my time with her on the road, the stop in Brazil is the focal point - not surprising given the
country's increased profile as Latin America leader. Clinton is now heading the administration's push to
secure sanctions on Iran, and in Brasilia she tries and fails to win President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to her
cause. She employs an almost combative tone at a press conference with Celso Amorim, Brazil's foreign
minister. At moments she appears to barely contain her irritation, as she denounces "an Iran that runs to
Brazil" as well as other countries such as Turkey and China "telling different things to different people to
avoid international sanctions". Amorim is spiky in his own way - drawing parallels to the 1990s sanctions
on Iraq and the claims about weapons of mass destruction before the 2003 war. "Of course, I don't agree
with everything the Secretary said," he says.
It is not a happy experience - indeed this past week both Brazil and Turkey voted against sanctions at the
United Nations - yet Hillary Clinton is nowhere near giving up. Years ago, one of Bill Clinton's biographers
described his approach to government as a "permanent campaign", and it appears to be his wife's
preferred form of existence as well. If there is one constant in Clinton's life, it is that she never throws in
her cards, whether what motivates her is power or public service.
"Never, never!" she exclaims, when I ask whether she ever thought of walking off into the wings after the
frustrations and indignities of her time at the White House. "I have a very realistic sense of what high-
stakes politics requires and it took me a while to get there because it's shocking when you are in the
arena ... but once you figure it out, you can take it seriously for purposes of analysis and understanding,
but you can't take it personally." Such treatment seems to rankle all the same. She's been listening to
coverage ahead of the British debate and is plainly irritated by the coverage of the leaders' wives.
"Whether a woman's running for office or she's supporting her husband who's running for office and she
gets criticised for wearing open-toed shoes or for the colour of her coat, there's just a lot of history that
you bear if you are a woman who puts herself out in the political arena," she says.
Another country Clinton boards her official 727 to fly from Sao Paulo to Costa Rica
Injustice towards women appears to be the issue that most enthuses Clinton in this job - as in her many
other incarnations in American public life, whether as First Lady or before. "I feel passionately it is in not
just the American national security interests but the world's, that women be given the opportunities and
the tools to make the most out of their own lives," she says.
In the 1990s she steered clear of reading the newspapers because of the way she was treated. Today, she
says, "I certainly don't read coverage of me, I read what else is going on that I need to know about to do
my job." "It's all baloney," says Philippe Reines, her press adviser, who set up the meeting with her and is
sitting to one side in her office.
"Yeah, yeah, right, that's what he tells me," Clinton responds.
I wonder. She may not read the stories about her, but she has boosted her domestic profile still further by
talking to American magazines such as Esquire, Vogue and Parade. To what end? Clinton has said she will
only serve one four-year term as secretary of state - understandable, given the grind of the job. When I
ask whether she expects a woman president in the next decade or so, she responds: "I'd love that,
obviously I would love that. I want to be front and centre when it happens."
"Any chance it would be you?" I ask.
"No, no, I don't think that's in the cards," Clinton says. She's given more categoric denials in the past. "I
think that there's a whole generation of young women and not so young, but mature, seasoned women
who are earning their stripes and recognising how tough it is out there. It is not for the faint of heart to
run for president, and I believe it is harder for women, it just is, and that's just a fact." But, says one US
official, "all the profiles and all this media treatment undercut the argument that she is finished with
electoral politics. Why do all this stuff? She's already Hillary Clinton. You have to ask: 'What's the idea
behind raising her domestic profile still further?"
Indeed she is now, by some counts, the most popular politician in America and some in Washington say
she could be a good fit for the vice-presidential slot in the 2012 elections.
Back in Sao Paulo, once the town hall meeting is over, Clinton faces a seven-hour flight to Costa Rica. The
journey goes on and on, and as saleswoman-in-chief for the US in an unruly world, she faces a long, hard
road. Today the US sometimes struggles to assert itself on the world stage. But the obstacles are rather
fewer if the product she is pitching is herself. A secretary of state like none before her, Hillary Clinton,
long one of the most formidable figures in US politics, is looking stronger than ever.
Daniel Dombey is the FT's US diplomatic correspondent
David Miliband: "Hillary is a rock star ... she has a great sense of fun, and a great sense of humour"
It's too early to start chalking up a scorecard because Hillary Clinton, and the Obama administration, is
laying the foundations for long-term change in America's foreign policy. The challenges are immense -
probably more difficult than the inheritance of any previous administration. But American leadership is
essential and a commitment to multilateralism - in fact multi, multilateralism using different and
overlapping forums - is real and right.
You also have to remember that Hillary is a rock star. When I arrived at the Nato Foreign Ministers
meeting in March 2009, it was a nice surprise that all the staff, never mind the press, seemed to have
turned out in droves for my arrival. Then I realised that Hillary was 10 minutes behind me.
That said, the thing that most surprised me about working with Clinton was not her intelligence or her
hard work, all of which are well known, but that behind the serious exterior is someone who has a great
sense of fun, and a great sense of humour. She has seen politics from all sides, and can laugh at herself
as well as at others.
She's a remarkably good listener, always synthesising ideas and opinions to develop her own. She thinks
strategically as well as tactically. She's also very, very unpompous. Hillary is a very political person but in
a particular way, she honours politics and public service and believes that democratic politics is not a
necessary evil, but a calling of value and vocation. She knows you win some and you lose some, but it's
essential to take part.
There's one other thing. Hillary is a people person in that she thinks deeply about the psychology of the
people she's dealing with. Their motivation, their loyalties, their culture. It's real emotional intelligence in
trying to understand why people disagree and how you can get them to agree. I think that must be why
so many other members of the administration say she is a very good colleague.
David Miliband is shadow foreign secretary
Gideon Rachman: "Relations between the White House and the State Department are not particularly
close"
A school teacher asked to write a report on Hillary Clinton's stint as secretary of state would have to give
her 10/10 for effort but a rather more modest mark for actual achievements - maybe a six or a seven.
Secretaries of state are generally judged on two criteria. First, how have they done in the endless
bureaucratic turf wars that characterise Washington politics? Second, how effective have they been in
promoting US foreign policy in the wider world? Success in one area usually helps in the other. Henry
Kissinger was a superb Washington infighter - and his close relationship with President Nixon made him
all the more effective overseas. Colin Powell, George W. Bush's first secretary of state, was widely
admired outside the US - but came out on the wrong side of many of the Washington battles, which
limited his ability to get things done in the wider world.
Hillary Clinton has skilfully avoided being sucked into the debilitating Washington struggles that so
damaged Powell. Despite the often poisonous rivalry between the Obama and Clinton camps during the
campaign, Clinton has a good working relationship with the president. But while relations between the
White House and the State Department are cordial, they do not seem to be particularly close. Clinton
appointed many loyalists from her own campaign to the State Department, with the result that State is
rather detached from Obama's inner circle. Obama's penchant for making high-profile speeches in foreign
capitals such as Cairo, Prague, Tokyo and Istanbul means that the president himself has done more than
anyone else to define his administration's approach to the world.
That still leaves a role for Clinton to fill in the crucial details of policy. But special representatives have
been appointed to deal with Afghanistan and the Middle East - and the Treasury is critical to China policy.
Asked about Clinton's impact as secretary of state, one senior European policymaker purses his lips and
says: "She's done some great trips, and she's highly professional. But it's hard to see any particular area
where she has really driven policy."
Gideon Rachman is the FT's chief foreign affairs columnist
David Rothkopf: "When she has been asked to deliver tough messages, she has done so unflinchingly"
Hillary Clinton has been a cautious secretary of state: she has protected the president well and pursued
his agenda without upstaging him - an early concern, given her stature. She has worked very well with
other members of the cabinet, and is reconsidering the role and structure of the State Department.
That includes a review of the role of diplomacy going forward. Clinton has not only acknowledged the rise
of new powers and a changing global power structure but has taken steps to reshape US foreign policy
structure accordingly. An important part of that has been recognising the importance of co-operating with
private and non-state actors such as NG0s, as well as dealing with non-state threats.
When the administration has called upon her to deliver tough messages, she has done so unflinchingly.
This has allowed the president to articulate a strategic vision which Clinton then goes about implementing.
Still, neither the secretary of state nor the president determines the global situation. The US may be the
most powerful country in the world but it is one among many powerful countries, and many aspects of the
situation we face today are beyond our control. The Obama administration has been dealt an extremely
difficult hand: not only Iraq and Afghanistan, but Iran and North Korea's nuclear programmes, the rise of
emerging powers and a complex and still unfolding series of financial crises.
We have gone from a world in which the US thought it had limitless resources and unbounded options to
one where the limits are clear; from a world in which you could work in the GB to one where you have to
work in the context of the G20; a world where new technologies and new powers play a bigger role. All of
those things would dictate a change in foreign policy regardless of who is in office.
Hillary Clinton has established a very solid foundation. The next step is to identify a couple of signature
issues - and have a couple of signature successes. That will take her to the next level.
David Rothkopf is a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace with expertise in
national security
 --- 

; Huma Abedin<Huma@clintonemail.com>; Jake
RELEASE IN PART B6
 --- 


 --- 

Are you okay w the below?
Go U.S.!
 --- 

Madame Secretary:
On flight home from Kampala, which was exhausting
Monday, but whatever you hear, the big picture is this:
I am sending Info memo B5
To become operational, any crimes of aggression
1. must still be affirmatively revoted by two thirds votes of states parties
2 no earlier than 2017
3 there will be another review conf probably before this goes into effect 4of the two ways of referring crime one goes
through an exclusive sc trigger;
5 the other branch has
A a prior sc filter *and*
B an ex post sc red light plus
C requires full vote of 9 judges of pretrial division and D nonconsenting aggressor states can opt out and E prosecutor
must have reasonable basis for investigation under definition which F has now been significantly narrowed
I can elaborate Monday
Best
Harold
Harold Hongju Koh
The Legal Adviser
U.S. Department of State
Suite 6421
2201 C St. NW
Washington, DC 20520-6421
202 647 9598 office
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Saturday, June 12, 2010 11:45 AM
Re: Pls Clear: Anniversary of Iran's Disputed Presidential Election
 --- 

Word is that we're going to announce our response to the Israeli flotilla investigation today. Did Jones or Ross speak
with you about it?
 --- 

We have scheduled calls tomorrow with:
- Swedish Foreign Minister Bildt at 9:00 am
- Norwegian Foreign Minister Stoere at 10:45 am You have call sheets for both.
Ok?
 --- 

Fyi. I think this call makes sense.
 --- 

We will connect calls to whitehaven. Unless u want to cancel?
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

He was with me last weekend. He's left for a week in Greece yesterday on erratic email. What's up?
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Monday, June 21, 2010 9:42 PM
Fw: McChrystal in Rolling Stone
R1109McChrystal.pdf
Attached is the doc, in pdf. I will have it faxed to your house.
It's for the NEXT issue of Rolling Stone but AP has a copy. We'll need
Some choice quotes below.
 --- 

Roger
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Sunday, June 13, 2010 10:51 AM
Abedin, Huma
Re: S-Saudabayev call
Will keep you posted.
 --- 

Aye
 --- 

From John Beyerle ... Perhaps the Russians won't send troops:
I just called Karasin. He agreed that the situation had gotten worse in Osh and Jalalabad today but said the Russian
position is still that sending in foreign troops, whether Russian or CSTO, will be counterproductive and lead to more
violence and bloodshed.
The IL-76s that flew in to Kant today were the EMERCOM/M4C planes he told me about yesterday; they have
humanitarian cargo, primarily doctors and medical equipment. I cited the news reports that a battalion of paratroopers
had gone in -- he said there may be some troops on board to guard the plane or beef up security at Kant, but he was
firm that at this point Russia has no plans to introduce its own forces in the south. The main objective was to stop the
violence through peaceful means; Russia had provided the Kyrgyz forces with additional "technical means" for
accomplishing that. He said they hoped this would help Kyrgyz forces get control of the situation, which was their main
goal.
I asked about CSTO planning, and possible UN or OSCE PKFs. He said there is no formal CSTO meeting planned,
although people are consulting via phone. He repeated their hesitation to see any CSTO deployments. They have not
yet considered UN or OSCE PKFs, but if the situation continues to deteriorate, he wouldn't exclude the possibility.
Rushailo is currently in Moscow, but may be sent to Bishkek tomorrow or Tuesday. He agreed to call me if there is any
major change in the situation on the ground, or regarding force deployments. Tomorrow is a Russian holiday but he'll
have his cell phone on.
 --- 


 --- 

I can talk tonight - whenever is convenient for you.
 --- 

Sure could, if it works for you.
 --- 


 --- 

Yep - speak w/ you then
 --- 

I talked to CDM about doing some strategy sessions this week. We discussed trying to do three:
There are obviously a dozen different ways to do this, and a dozen different configurations. So consider this a strawman
- we're eager to hear your reactions.
 --- 

I hadn't heard about this piece until you emailed. It comes out later this week but what's leaked so far is definitely a
doozie
Unclear to me why anyone ever cooperate with Rolling Stone
 --- 

Talked to Ben. Much to report.
 --- 

Below is McC's statement and some early articles:
McC Statement:
I extend my sincerest apology for this profile. It was a mistake
reflecting poor judgment and should never have happened.
Throughout my career, I have lived by the principles of personal honor
and professional integrity. What is reflected in this article falls far
short of that standard.
I have enormous respect and admiration for President Obama and his
national security team, and for the civilian leaders and troops fighting
this war and I remain committed to ensuring its successful outcome.
Aides to U.S. general in Afghanistan slam Obama:
report
20 mins ago
WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Aides to the top U.S. general in Afghanistan insulted some of President Barack Obama's closest advisers,
calling one a "clown" and another a "wounded animal," in an article to be published Friday in Rolling Stone magazine.
The article also quotes an aide describing the commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan General Stanley McChrystal's
"disappointment" with his initial one-on-one meeting with Obama last year.
Quoting all the McChrystal aides anonymously, the article portrays a split between the U.S. military and Obama's advisers at an
extremely sensitive moment for the Pentagon, which is fending off criticism of its strategy to turn around the nearly nine-year-old
Afghan war.
The Pentagon had no immediate comment about the article, which has been brought to the attention of senior officials.
It quotes a member of McChrystal's team making jokes about Vice President Joe Biden, who was seen as critical of the general's
efforts to escalate the conflict and who had favored a more limited counter-terrorism approach.
"Biden?" the aide was quoted as saying. "Did you say: Bite me?"
Another aide called White House National Security Adviser Jim Jones, a retired four star general, a "clown" who was "stuck in 1985."
It quoted an adviser to McChrystal dismissing an early meeting with Obama as a "10-minute photo op."
"Obama clearly didn't know anything about him, who he was. The boss was pretty disappointed," the adviser told the magazine.
McChrystal, a famous workaholic said to sleep just four hours a day, was brought into Afghanistan a year ago after his predecessor
was pushed out.
The article portrays his teams as disapproving of the Obama administration, with the exception of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton,
who backed McCrystal's request for additional troops in Afghanistan.
Some of the strongest criticism was reserved for Richard Holbrooke, Obama's special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan.
"The boss says he's like a wounded animal," a member of the general's team is quoted as saying. "Holbrooke keeps hearing rumors
that he's going to get fired, so that makes him dangerous."
McChrystal was quoted as saying he felt "betrayed" by the leak of a classified cable from U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl
Eikenberry last year. The cable raised doubts about sending more troops to shore up an Afghan government already lacking in
credibility.
"I like Karl, I've known him for years, but they'd never said anything like that to us before," McChrystal was quoted as saying in the
article.
"Here's one that covers his flank for the history books. Now if we fail, they can say, 'I told you so."
(Editing by Washington World Desk)
Copyright © 2010 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
And from the WSJ:
0 JUNE 21, 2010, 6:55 PM ET
McChrystal's Next Offensive?
Relations between the U.S. military and civilians in the Obama administration have been tense since last year's three-month review of Afghan war strategy, a state of affairs
unlikely to be helped by a new profile of Gen. Stanley McChrystal, the overall commander in Afghanistan, that will appear in Rolling Stone magazine on Friday.
In the eight-page article, released to reporters on Monday ahead of publication, McChrystal appears to belittle Vice President Joe Biden and accuses Karl Eikenberry, the U.S.
ambassador to Kabul, of undermining his war plan within the administration.
Asked by the Rolling Stone reporter about what he now feels of the war strategy advocated by Biden last fall — fewer troops, more drone attacks — the article reports that
McChrystal and his aides attempted to come up with a good one-liner to dismiss the question. "Are you asking about Vice President Biden?" McChrystal reportedly jokes. "Who's
that?"
Later in the article, McChrystal turns more serious when asked about cables sent last fall to Washington by Eikenberry. The cables called into question the major troop increase
advocated by McChrystal's team and the U.S.'s backing of Afghan President Hamid Karzai — views that the ambassador had not previously raised with McChrystal or his staff.
"I like Karl, I've known him for years, but they'd never said anything like that to us before," McChrystal is quoted as saying. "Here's one that covers his flank for the history
books. Now if we fail, they can say, 'I told you so."
The article, titled "The Runaway General," has already caused nervousness inside the Pentagon, where memories are still fresh of another blistering profile that got a top
commander in hot water: an August 2008 cover story in Esquire <hop://wvav.esquire.com/features/fox-fallon > on Adm. William "Fox" Fallon, then commander of all U.S.
forces in the Middle East and Central Asia. The article eventually played a part in Fallon's resignation two years ago.
In that Esquire piece, however, Fallon appeared to directly contradict White House policy on Iran and other parts of the Middle East; the Rolling Stone article makes no such
allegation, but rather is full of jokey put-downs of important Washington players.
Comments in the article attributed to anonymous McChrystal aides are particularly harsh towards some senior members of the Obama administration, including National Security
Adviser James Jones, and other leading politicians, like Sens. John Kerry (D., Mass.) and John McCain (R., Ariz). They also make some unflattering references to
PresidentBarack Obama himself, saying the president didn't seem to know who McChrystal was when he appointed him to run the war early last year.
Only Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who is portrayed as having strongly backed McChrystal's plan for Afghanistan, is singled out for praise by the anonymous McChrystal
aides.
A spokesman for McChrystal did not immediately respond to a request for comment late Monday.
Copyright 2008 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement
<littp://onlinemsi.com/public/pagg/subscriber agreement.html> and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints all-
800-843-0008 or visit
www.djremints.com <htm://www.djrenrints.com>
Top US Afghan commander mocks Biden: report
(AFP) — 1 hour ago
WASHINGTON — The US commander in Afghanistan mocks the vice president and denounces a top diplomat in a magazine interview, while his aides
speak dismissively of President Barack Obama.
Tensions between General Stanley McChrystal and the White House are on full display in an unflattering profile in Rolling Stone of the commander of US
and NATO forces in the Afghan war.
McChrystal jokes sarcastically about preparing to answer a question referring to Vice President Joe Biden, known as a skeptic of the commander's war
strategy.
"Are you asking about Vice President Biden?' McChrystal says with a laugh. 'Who's that?'" the article quotes him as saying.
"Biden?' suggests a top adviser. 'Did you say: Bite Me?"
McChrystal tells the magazine that he felt "betrayed" by the US ambassador to Kabul, Karl Eikenberry, in a White House debate over war strategy last year.
Referring to a leaked internal memo from Eikenberry that questioned McChrystal's request for more troops, the commander suggested the ambassador had
tried to protect himself for history's sake.
"I like Karl, I've known him for years, but they'd never said anything like that to us before," McChrystal tells the magazine.
"Here's one that covers his flank for the history books. Now if we fail, they can say, ?I told you so."
Eikenberry, himself a former commander in Afghanisan, had written to the White House saying Afghan President Hamid Karzai was an unreliable partner
and that a surge of troops could draw the United States into a open-ended quagmire.
The article revisits the friction between the White House and the military last fall as Obama debated whether to grant McChrystal's request for tens of
thousands of reinforcements.
Although Obama in the end granted most of what McChrystal asked for, the strategy review was a difficult time, the general tells the magazine.
"I found that time painful," McChrystal says. "I was selling an unsellable position."
An unnamed adviser to McChrystal alleges the general came away unimpressed after a meeting with Obama in the Oval Office a year ago, just after the
president named him to take over in Afghanistan.
"It was a 10-minute photo op," the general's adviser says.
"Obama clearly didn?t know anything about him, who he was.., he didn?t seem very engaged.
"The boss was pretty disappointed," says the adviser.
The profile, titled "The Runaway General," portrays his aides as profane and intensely loyal to McChrystal, while arguing the general has seized control over
the war on the military and diplomatic fronts.
The four-star general also derides the hard-charging top US envoy to the region, Richard Holbrooke, and complains about a dinner with an unnamed French
minister during a visit to Paris.
"Oh, not another e-mail from Holbrooke," McChrystal says, looking at his messages on a mobile phone. "I don't even want to open it."
In a hotel room in Paris getting ready for a dinner with a French official, McChrystal says: "How'd I get screwed into going to this dinner?"
"The dinner comes with the position, sir," says his aide, Colonel Charlie Flynn.
"Hey, Charlie," McChrystal says, "does this come with the position?"
McChrystal gives him the middle finger.
Copyright © 2010 AFP. All rights reserved
 --- 

Attached is the story in scanned form. Not sure if you can open/read on your berry, so will make sure Lauren has too
 --- 

Oh darn it - sorry I missed your message - I was engrossed in the PSD script.
If you're still up please call.
 --- 


 --- 

Will do.
 --- 

Will set up
I'm seeing next week and she's flexible so we can do any morning. B6
Think may be traveling but will check.
 --- 

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence *En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am MONDAY MEETING w/ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:00 am Principals Conference Room 7516
10:05 am DROP-BY U/S BURNS' MEETING w/UAE TRADE MINISTER
10:10 am SHEIKHA LUBNA al QASIMI Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo at top.
10:15 am PRE-BRIEF w/AMBASSADOR CdeBACA AND U/S OTERO
10:25 am Secretary's Office
10:30 am RELEASE OF 10TH ANNUAL TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS REPORT
10:50 am Benjamin Franklin Room, 8th Floor
11:00 am OFFICE TIME
3:15 pm Secretary's Office
3:20 pm PHOTO w/ZIA SYED AND FAMILY
3:30 pm Secretary's Outer Office
3:40 pm REMARKS TO THE DIPLOMACY CONFERENCE ON SUB-SAHARAN
4:20 pm AFRICA Loy Henderson Conference Room
4:30 pm OFFICE TIME
5:15 pin Secretary's Office
5:20 pm MEETING w/UNDERSECRETARY BURNS
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

Today June 14th, is his birthday
202-419-1420 w main
Asst: Katie
Asst. Ali cell
###
 --- 


 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Tuesday, June 22, 2010 8:14 AM
FW: Rahm's long goodbye
Rahm's long goodbye
By: Glenn Thrush
June 22, 2010 04:34 AM EDT
For all the talk about Rahm Emanuel reaching for the "eject" button, the fiery White House
chief of staff isn't leaving in the immediate future — and could serve well into 2011,
according to people close to him.
"It's the opinion in the top levels of the White House that Rahm is going to be here longer
than many people think," said a senior administration official, speaking on condition of
anonymity.
Speculation about Emanuel's departure has been a favorite parlor game for nearly a year
— stoked by Emanuel's admission that he'd love to run for Chicago mayor (should current'
Mayor Richard Daley retire, of course), his own kvetching about the rigors of the job,
withering attacks on him from the left and the right and the fact that the average expiration
date on a chief of staff is 18 months.
Emanuel is leaving, but his departure date has proved to be profoundly elastic. Friends
and co-workers said he vacillates from day to day, sometimes minute to minute. He might
leave in December after the midterms; or he might stay until next summer, depending on
whether Daley runs or President Barack Obama asks him to stick around, they said.
And even as he pines for his native Chicago, Emanuel continues to put down real roots in
D.C., recently writing the check to enroll his children in the exclusive Maret School in
Washington through the 2011 school year, according to a person close to Emanuel.
He's shown few signs of loosening his grip on the tiller — bombarding White House
staffers with long-distance calls during the first days of the Gulf oil spill even as he
traveled in Israel for his son's bar mitzvah.
And in a broader sense, it's hard to imagine Emanuel's huge personality extracted from
the political, journalistic and bar stool life of Obama's Washington.
Take the last game of last week's NBA Finals, when any American voter could wander
into Tunnicliff's Tavern on Capitol Hill and witness one of the most powerful men in the
nation egging on the Boston Celtics — screaming at the flat-screen TV, actually — joined
by a merry band that included Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.); Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.);
Jim Manley, spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.); and a pair of
favorite reporters from The New York Times and The Washington Post.
Despite a British tabloid story asserting that Emanuel is sick of Obama's "idealism" and is
racing for the exit, the former Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee chairman
still loves the attention and power of his current job and hasn't made up his mind when
he's leaving, people who know him said.
"This is BS. And if you need it for translation, it is baseless," Emanuel said in a statement
pushing back against a story in the U.K.'s Daily Telegraph portraying Emanuel as restless!
and fed up.
Replacing Emanuel, when he eventually goes, will be no easy task for Obama and the
small clique of close advisers led by Pete Rouse, David Axelrod and Valerie Jarrett.
For one thing, Obama and company need to know what the post-November political
landscape looks like before picking a successor: If Republicans take back one or more
house of Congress, the new chief of staff will need to know how to leverage executive
power against a hostile Hill; if Democrats retain their majorities, Emanuel's successor will
need some of his legislative skills.
Barring a major course correction, Obama, who prizes loyalty and familiarity, isn't likely to
reach too far outside his inner circle, advisers said.
Still, the president is increasingly cognizant of his reputation for insularity and would quite
likely give a serious look at respected former Clinton chiefs of staff Leon Panetta, currenW
head of the CIA, or John Podesta, who runs the Center for American Progress, a major
liberal think tank with close ties to the administration.
Rouse, a senior adviser who served as Obama's Senate chief of staff, is considered the
best pure manager in the White House and a logical choice to replace Emanuel, according
to a half-dozen.administration officials and consultants.
But Rouse's colleagues say the quiet 60-year-old insider loves his work, the Grateful Dead
and his cats — but despises the spotlight and would most likely turn down the job unless
Obama insisted.
"The key thing about Pete is that the president trusts him and would feel very, very
comfortable with him in charge," said a Democratic consultant who knows both men well.
"But he probably won't take it."
One possible candidate — deputy chief of staff Jim Messina, Emanuel's political go-to guy
— is likely to play a major role in Obama's 2012 reelection campaign and is expected to
move to Chicago sometime next year.
In Messina's absence, another Emanuel favorite — Deputy National Security Adviser Tom
Donilon — has emerged as a possible successor, according to people close to the
situation.
Obama has been impressed by Donilon's presentations at the President's Daily Briefing,
and the Rhode Island native has a wide variety of political and governmental experience,
serving as a congressional liaison under President Jimmy Carter, chief State Department
spokesman under President Bill Clinton and a campaign adviser who helped Obama
prepare for debates against John McCain.
One major Donilon drawback: He served as an executive vice president for Fannie Mae,
the bailed-out mortgage giant, and reportedly lobbied against stronger regulatory
oversight.
David Plouffe, Obama's 2008 campaign manager, is another contender, with a reputation
for discipline, team building and solid management skills. But Plouffe has been reluctant to
settle down in Washington, is earning a stellar living as a consultant and hates the press.
Former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle is also a possible successor, even though
his nomination for Health and Human Services secretary was scuttled by revelations he
failed to report limo rides paid for by a corporate client.
Another White House aide, Phil Schiliro, is a favorite of Obama's for his legislative savvy
and political instincts. But critics said he lacks the range of policy and political experience
that other candidates possess, and that his mastery of the Hill won't mean much if
Democrats surrender their majorities in either house.
Then there's Ron Klain, 49, Vice President Joe Biden's brainy and politically astute chief
of staff, who is said to be intensely interested in making the move from the Eisenhower
Executive Office Building to the West Wing.
Klain — who also served as Al Gore's chief of staff — is well-regarded inside the White
House. Plus, he's got a touch of star power: Kevin Spacey played him in the HBO movie
"Recount," about his role in guiding the Gore campaign through the 2000 Florida recount.
Klain's downside: He's essentially an outsider who has yet to develop a serious rapport
with the president, according to insiders.
C 2010 Capitol News Company, LLC
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

http://maxblumenthal.com/2010/06/the-israeli-medias-flotilla-fail/
The Israeli Media's Flotilla Fail
On 06.22.10, By Max Blumenthal
My summaty of the Israeli media's shambolic performance following the flotilla massacre was originally published here in
Hebrew at Dvorit Shargal's excellent Israeli media blog, Velvet Underground. The English version follows:
If the raid of the Gaza Freedom Flotilla was a disaster for the Israel Defense Forces, its aftermath demonstrated an
equally bewildering performance by the Israeli media. The IDF Spokesman's Office churned out one misleading claim
after another, each one more implausible than the next, seeking to implant in the public's mind a version of events that
bore little relation to reality. To a degree, this was to be expected; but it was startling to see how some of Israel's most
respected reporters lined up to serve as military stenographers, barely challenging the IDF's rapidly changing versions of
events. IDF claims about the flotilla passengers' links to Al Qaida, anti-Semitic statements shouted at the Israeli Navy, and
their terrorist intentions were eagerly broadcast by the Israeli media without a second thought. When independent
reporters forced the IDF to retract or "clarify" all of these claims, Israeli news outlets refused to correct their errors, or
covered them up without acknowledgment.
It so happened that I arrived in Israel for a research trip the day after the flotilla raid. As a result, I was able to do
something which I always thought to be a very basic journalistic practice, so basic it's supposed to be applied routinely:
Asking an implicated party in a story to produce evidence for its claims. What I found bewildering is that at least judging
from Israeli media reports, few, if any, mainstream reporters applied this practice, and when a visiting colleague did their
job for them – nobody bothered to correct or withdraw their original report.
On June 2, the IDF disseminated a press release entitled, "Attackers of the IDF soldiers found to be Al Qaeda
mercenaries." The accusation was not accompanied by any conclusive evidence — the IDF reported that Mavi Marmara
passengers were equipped with night-vision goggles (gasp!). This did not stop Yedioth's Ron Ben-Yishai, who was
embedded with the Navy commandos, from amplifying the baseless charge. Citing an "interrogation" of Marmara
passengers — "lynchers," he called them — Ben-Yishai wrote the same day, "Some among the [flotilla passengers] are
believed to have ties with World Jihad groups, mainly Al Qaeda." The article made no reference to any efforts on part of
Ben Yishai to investigate this claim, nor did he seem to think to ask why the IDF was about to release dangerous
operatives of Osama Bin Laden — presumably they would attack again, wouldn't they? •
On June 3, Israeli journalist Lia Tarachansky of the Real News Network and I placed calls to the IDF Spokesman's Office
to demand further evidence of the Marmara's Al Qaeda ties. We received identical responses from spokespeople from the
IDF's Israel and North America desks: "We don't have any evidence. The press release was based on information from
the National Security Council." Hours later, the IDF retracted its claim, changing the title of its press release to, "Attackers
of IDF Soldiers Found Without Identification Papers." Despite the official retraction, Ben-Yishai's article remains
uncorrected.
On June 4, the IDF released an audio clip purporting to consist of transmissions between the Mavi Marmara and a Naval
warship. "Go back to Aushwitz!" a Marmara passenger shouted, according to the IDF. YNet and Haaretz reported on and
reproduced the audio clip without investigating its authenticity. Forget that the voice uttering the anti-Semitic slur sounded
like a mentally disturbed teenager; had reporters performed a cursory search of the IDF Spokeman's Office website, they
would have found a longer clip released on May 31 that featured a dramatically different exchange with the Marmara with
no mention of Auschwitz. Further, the voice of flotilla organizer Huwaida Arraf was featured in the "Aushwitz" clip, yet Arraf
was not aboard the Marmara (she was on the Challenger One). Could the IDF have doctored audio to exploit public
hysteria surrounding the issue of anti-Semitism?
On my blog, I pointed out the discrepancies in the IDF's footage and raised the question of doctoring. The next day, the
IDF conceded that it had in fact doctored the footage, releasing a "clarification" and a new clip claiming to consist of the
"full" exchange between the Navy and the flotilla. Unfortunately, the authenticity of the new clip was impossible to verify.
Despite the IDF's admission, YNet and Haaretz have not corrected their original reports, though Haaretz has at least
altered its headline. Once the doctoring was exposed, the New York Times covered the episode in detail, directing
international attention to the triumph of independent online reporting and the apparent failure of Israel's parochial press
corps.
On June 7, Haaretz's Anshel Pfeffer reported on an IDF press release claiming without evidence that five flotilla
passengers had links to international terror. The press release was larded with highly implausible claims, including that
Ken O'Keefe, who runs an aid organization with Tony Blair's sister-in-law, was planning to train a Hamas commando unit
in the Gaza Strip. When I called the IDF Spokesman's Office, I learned that once again, no evidence was available to
support their press release. "There is very limited intelligence we can give in this specific case," Sgt. Chen Arad told me.
"Obviously I'm unable to give you more information." Did Pfeffer demand more evidence? If he did and was answered in
the same manner as I did, why did Haaretz publish an unsubstantiated spin as fact?
Joined by Haaretz military correspondents Avi Isacharoff and Amos Harel, Pfeffer became a channel for another daytime
deception by the IDF. On May 31, the three reporters produced an article based exclusively on testimony from Naval
commandos — the flotilla passengers' side of the story was ignored — claiming they had faced live fire and lynching
attempts from Marmara passengers. Since the story was published, the IDF has produced scant evidence to support
either accusation. The article was accompanied by a suspicious photo from the IDF Spokesman's Office depicting a
bearded Muslim man brandishing a knife and surrounded by photojournalists. Daylight beamed in from a window behind
the man. Haaretz's caption, which was sourced to the IDF, asserted that the photo was taken "after" the commandos had
boarded the Marmara. However, the commandos raided the ship at night, while the photo was taken during the day. Once
again, the IDF's story was fishy.
I called Sgt. Arad at the IDF Spokesman's Office to investigate. He told me he had no evidence to support the photo's
questionable caption. Soon after our phone conversation, Haaretz quietly altered the caption, removing its claim that the
photo was taken "after" the commando raid. For nearly a week, the false photo caption had remained intact. Why did
Haaretz suddenly change it? The only plausible explanation is that the paper received a tip from the IDF Spokesman's
Office. If true, the tip-off suggests a scandalous level of coordination between the Israeli military and the country's media.
In the wake of the flotilla raid, Israeli journalists had a unique opportunity to lead the global media's investigation into the
bloodbath that occurred on the deck of the Mavi Marmara. After all, no one had better access to the military or the
eyewitnesses aboard the flotilla. Instead, too many among the Israeli press corps allowed themselves to be conscripted
into the IDF's hapless information war, leaving the important task of investigating the raid to independent reporters who
remembered to view claims by any nation's military with extreme skepticism.
So why do well-connected, experienced reporters follow the IDF baton so willingly, and fail to follow up when IDF claims
are retracted? Is it simple bias, a desire to present their military in the best possible light, a desire so strong they abandon
their duty to their readers to verify their information? Are they afraid of sanctions, of losing contacts and access to
information? Do they fear personal reprisals? Their readers, and the world media that still relies on Israeli journalism as a
vital source of information, need to know.
 --- 


 --- 

Am passing on as requested. I will also follow up with Maura O'Neill — I have followed this up before at Amory's request.
AM
 --- 

Cc: Rodriguez, Miguel E
Ann Stock was just confirmed by the Senate.
 --- 

I'm on it and will report tomorrow. AM
 --- 

OMG!
You are so fabulous!
 --- 

June 26. In London, onwarding to Moscow.... Thought FT interview turned out well even if exposed Dan's ignorance
about airplanes (he doesn't know the difference between a 727 and a 777!).
 --- 

The Runaway General
Stanley McChrystal, Obama's top commander in Afghanistan,
has seized control of the war by never taking his eye off the
real enemy: The wimps in the White House
By Michael Hastings
Jun 22, 2010 10:00 AM EDT
This article originally appeared in RS 1108/1109 from July 8-22, 2010.
'Howed I get screwed into going to this dinner?" demands Gen. Stanley McChrystal. It's a Thursday night in mid-April,
and the commander of all U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan is sitting in a four-star suite at the HOtel Westminster in
Paris. He's in France to sell his new war strategy to our NATO allies — to keep up the fiction, in essence, that we actually
have allies. Since McChrystal took over a year ago, the Afghan war has become the exclusive property of the United
States. Opposition to the war has already toppled the Dutch government, forced the resignation of Germany's president
and sparked both Canada and the Netherlands to announce the withdrawal of their 4,500 troops. McChrystal is in Paris to
keep the French, who have lost more than 40 soldiers in Afghanistan, from going all wobbly on him.
"The dinner comes with the position, sir," says his chief of staff, Col. Charlie Flynn.
McChrystal turns sharply in his chair.
"Hey, Charlie," he asks, "does this come with the position?"
McChrystal gives him the middle finger.
The general stands and looks around the suite that his traveling staff of 10 has converted into a full-scale operations
center. The tables are crowded with silver Panasonic Toughbooks, and blue cables crisscross the hotel's thick carpet,
hooked up to satellite dishes to provide encrypted phone and e-mail communications. Dressed in off-the-rack civilian
casual — blue tie, button-down shirt, dress slacks — McChrystal is way out of his comfort zone. Paris, as one of his
advisers says, is the "most anti-McChrystal city you can imagine." The general hates fancy restaurants, rejecting any
place with candles on the tables as too "Gucci." He prefers Bud Light Lime (his favorite beer) to Bordeaux, Talladega
Nights (his favorite movie) to Jean-Luc Godard. Besides, the public eye has never been a place where McChrystal felt
comfortable: Before President Obama put him in charge of the war in Afghanistan, he spent five years running the
Pentagon's most secretive black ops.
"What's the update on the Kandahar bombing?" McChrystal asks Flynn. The city has been rocked by two massive car
bombs in the past day alone, calling into question the general's assurances that he can wrest it from the Taliban.
"We have two KIAs, but that hasn't been confirmed," Flynn says.
McChrystal takes a final look around the suite. At 55, he is gaunt and lean, not unlike an older version of Christian Bale in
Rescue Dawn. His slate-blue eyes have the unsettling ability to drill down when they lock on you. If you've fucked up or
disappointed him, they can destroy your soul without the need for him to raise his voice.
"I'd rather have my ass kicked by a roomful of people than go out to this dinner," McChrystal says.
He pauses a beat.
"Unfortunately," he adds, "no one in this room could do it."
With that, he's out the door.
"Who's he going to dinner with?" I ask one of his aides.
"Some French minister," the aide tells me. "It's fucking gay."
The next morning, McChrystal and his team gather to prepare for a speech he is giving at the Ecole Militaire, a French
military academy. The general prides himself on being sharper and ballsier than anyone else, but his brashness comes
with a price: Although McChrystal has been in charge of the war for only a year, in that short time he has managed to piss
off almost everyone with a stake in the conflict. Last fall, during the question-and-answer session following a speech he
gave in London, McChrystal dismissed the counterterrorism strategy being advocated by Vice President Joe Biden as
"shortsighted," saying it would lead to a state of "Chaos-istan." The remarks earned him a smackdown from the president
himself, who summoned the general to a terse private meeting aboard Air Force One. The message to McChrystal
seemed clear: Shut the fuck up, and keep a lower profile
Now, flipping through printout cards of his speech in Paris, McChrystal wonders aloud what Biden question he might get
today, and how he should respond. "I never know what's going to pop out until I'm up there, that's the problem," he says.
Then, unable to help themselves, he and his staff imagine the general dismissing the vice president with a good one-
liner.
"Are you asking about Vice President Biden?" McChrystal says with a laugh. "Who's that?"
"Biden?" suggests a top adviser. "Did you say: Bite Me?"
When Barack Obama entered the Oval Office, he immediately set out to deliver on his most important campaign
promise on foreign policy: to refocus the war in Afghanistan on what led us to invade in the first place. "I want the
American people to understand," he announced in March 2009. "We have a clear and focused goal: to disrupt, dismantle
and defeat Al Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan." He ordered another 21,000 troops to Kabul, the largest increase since
the war began in 2001. Taking the advice of both the Pentagon and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, he also fired Gen. David
McKiernan — then the U.S. and NATO commander in Afghanistan — and replaced him with a man he didn't know and had
met only briefly: Gen. Stanley McChrystal. It was the first time a top general had been relieved from duty during wartime in
more than 50 years, since Harry Truman fired Gen. Douglas MacArthur at the height of the Korean War.
Even though he had voted for Obama, McChrystal and his new commander in chief failed from the outset to connect. The
general first encountered Obama a week after he took office, when the president met with a dozen senior military officials
in a room at the Pentagon known as the Tank. According to sources familiar with the meeting, McChrystal thought Obama
looked "uncomfortable and intimidated" by the roomful of military brass. Their first one-on-one meeting took place in the
Oval Office four months later, after McChrystal got the Afghanistan job, and it didn't go much better. "It was a 10-minute
photo op," says an adviser to McChrystal. "Obama clearly didn't know anything about him, who he was. Here's the guy
who's going to run his fucking war, but he didn't seem very engaged. The Boss was pretty disappointed."
From the start, McChrystal was determined to place his personal stamp on Afghanistan, to use it as a laboratory for a
controversial military strategy known as counterinsurgency. COIN, as the theory is known, is the new gospel of the
Pentagon brass, a doctrine that attempts to square the military's preference for high-tech violence with the demands of
fighting protracted wars in failed states. COIN calls for sending huge numbers of ground troops to not only destroy the
enemy, but to live among the civilian population and slowly rebuild, or build from scratch, another nation's government — a
process that even its staunchest advocates admit requires years, if not decades, to achieve. The theory essentially
rebrands the military, expanding its authority (and its funding) to encompass the diplomatic and political sides of warfare:
Think the Green Berets as an armed Peace Corps. In 2006, after Gen. David Petraeus beta-tested the theory during his
"surge" in Iraq, it quickly gained a hardcore following of think-tankers, journalists, military officers and civilian officials.
Nicknamed "COINdinistas" for their cultish zeal, this influential cadre believed the doctrine would be the perfect solution
for Afghanistan. All they needed was a general with enough charisma and political savvy to implement it.
As McChrystal leaned on Obama to ramp up the war, he did it with the same fearlessness he used to track down terrorists
in Iraq: Figure out how your enemy operates, be faster and more ruthless than everybody else, then take the fuckers out.
After arriving in Afghanistan last June, the general conducted his own policy review, ordered up by Defense Secretary
Robert Gates. The now-infamous report was leaked to the press, and its conclusion was dire: If we didn't send another
40,000 troops — swelling the number of U.S. forces in Afghanistan by nearly half — we were in danger of "mission failure."
The White House was furious. McChrystal, they felt, was trying to bully Obama, opening him up to charges of being weak
on national security unless he did what the general wanted. It was Obama versus the Pentagon, and the Pentagon was
determined to kick the president's ass.
Last fall, with his top general calling for more troops, Obama launched a three-month review to re-evaluate the strategy in
Afghanistan. "I found that time painful," McChrystal tells me in one of several lengthy interviews. "I was selling an
unsellable position." For the general, it was a crash course in Beltway politics — a battle that pitted him against
experienced Washington insiders like Vice President Biden, who argued that a prolonged counterinsurgency campaign in
Afghanistan would plunge America into a military quagmire without weakening international terrorist networks. "The entire
COIN strategy is a fraud perpetuated on the American people," says Douglas Macgregor, a retired colonel and leading
critic of counterinsurgency who attended West Point with McChrystal. "The idea that we are going to spend a trillion
dollars to reshape the culture of the Islamic world is utter nonsense.
In the end, however, McChrystal got almost exactly what he wanted. On December 1st, in a speech at West Point, the
president laid out all the reasons why fighting the war in Afghanistan is a bad idea: It's expensive; we're in an economic
crisis; a decade-long commitment would sap American power; Al Qaeda has shifted its base of operations to Pakistan.
Then, without ever using the words "victory" or "win," Obama announced that he would send an additional 30,000 troops
to Afghanistan, almost as many as McChrystal had requested. The president had thrown his weight, however hesitantly,
behind the counterinsurgency crowd.
Today, as McChrystal gears up for an offensive in southern Afghanistan, the prospects for any kind of success look bleak.
In June, the death toll for U.S. troops passed 1,000, and the number of IEDs has doubled. Spending hundreds of billions
of dollars on the fifth-poorest country on earth has failed to win over the civilian population, whose attitude toward U.S.
troops ranges from intensely wary to openly hostile. Thetiggest military operation of the year — a ferocious offensive that
began in February to retake the southern town of Marja — continues to drag on, prompting McChrystal himself to refer to it
as a "bleeding ulcer." In June, Afghanistan officially outpaced Vietnam as the longest war in American history — and
Obama has quietly begun to back away from the deadline he set for withdrawing U.S. troops in July of next year. The
president finds himself stuck in something even more insane than a quagmire: a quagmire he knowingly walked into, even
though it's precisely the kind of gigantic, mind-numbing, multigenerational nation-building project he explicitly said he
didn't want.
Even those who support McChrystal and his strategy of counterinsurgency know that whatever the general manages to
accomplish in Afghanistan, it's going to look more like Vietnam than Desert Storm. "It's not going to look like a win, smell
like a win or taste like a win," says Maj. Gen. Bill Mayville, who serves as chief of operations for McChrystal. "This is going
to end in an argument."
The night after his speech in Paris, McChrystal and his staff head to Kitty O'Shea's, an Irish pub catering to tourists,
around the corner from the hotel. His wife, Annie, has joined him for a rare visit: Since the Iraq War began in 2003, she
has seen her husband less than 30 days a year. Though it is his and Annie's 33rd wedding anniversary, McChrystal has
invited his inner circle along for dinner and drinks at the "least Gucci" place his staff could find. His wife isn't surprised.
"He once took me to a Jack in the Box when I was dressed in formalwear," she says with a laugh.
The general's staff is a handpicked collection of killers, spies, geniuses, patriots, political operators and outright maniacs.
There's a former head of British Special Forces, two Navy Seals, an Afghan Special Forces commando, a lawyer, two
fighter pilots and at least two dozen combat veterans and counterinsurgency experts. They jokingly refer to themselves as
Team America, taking the name from the South Park-esque sendup of military cluelessness, and they pride themselves
on their can-do attitude and their disdain for authority. After arriving in Kabul last summer, Team America set about
changing the culture of the International Security Assistance Force, as the NATO-led mission is known. (U.S. soldiers had
taken to deriding ISAF as short for "I Suck at Fighting" or "In Sandals and Flip-Flops.") McChrystal banned alcohol on
base, kicked out Burger King and other symbols of American excess, expanded the morning briefing to include thousands
of officers and refashioned the command center into a Situational Awareness Room, a free-flowing information hub
modeled after Mayor Mike Bloomberg's offices in New York. He also set a manic pace for his staff, becoming legendary
for sleeping four hours a night, running seven miles each morning, and eating one meal a day. (In the month I spend
around the general, I witness him eating only once.) It's a kind of superhuman narrative that has built up around him, a
staple in almost every media profile, as if the ability to go without sleep and food translates into the possibility of a man
single-handedly winning the war.
By midnight at Kitty O'Shea's, much of Team America is completely shitfaced. Two officers do an Irish jig mixed with steps
from a traditional Afghan wedding dance, while McChrystal's top advisers lock arms and sing a slurred song of their own
invention."Afghanistan!" they bellow."Afghanistan!" They call it their Afghanistan song.
McChrystal steps away from the circle, observing his team. "All these men," he tells me. "I'd die for them. And they'd die
for me."
The assembled men may look and sound like a bunch of combat veterans letting off steam, but in fact this tight-knit group
represents the most powerful force shaping U.S. policy in Afghanistan. While McChrystal and his men are in indisputable
command of all military aspects of the war, there is no equivalent position on the diplomatic or political side. Instead, an
assortment of administration players compete over the Afghan portfolio: U.S. Ambassador Karl Eikenberry, Special
Representative to Afghanistan Richard Holbrooke, National Security Advisor Jim Jones and Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton, not to mention 40 or so other coalition ambassadors and a host of talking heads who try to insert themselves into
the mess, from John Kerry to John McCain. This diplomatic incoherence has effectively allowed McChrystal's team to call
the shots and hampered efforts to build a stable and credible government in Afghanistan. "It jeopardizes the mission,"
says Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who supports McChrystal. "The military cannot
by itself create governance reform."
Part of the problem is structural: The Defense Department budget exceeds $600 billion a year, while the State
Department receives only $50 billion. But part of the problem is personal: In private, Team McChrystal likes to talk shit
about many of Obama's top people on the diplomatic side. One aide calls Jim Jones, a retired four-star general and
veteran of the Cold War, a "clown" who remains "stuck in 1985." Politicians like McCain and Kerry, says another aide,
"turn up, have a meeting with Karzai, criticize him at the airport press conference, then get back for the Sunday talk
shows. Frankly, it's not very helpful." Only Hillary Clinton receives good reviews from McChrystal's inner circle. "Hillary
had Stan's back during the strategic review," says an adviser. "She said, 'If Stan wants it, give him what he needs.'"
McChrystal reserves special skepticism for Holbrooke, the official in charge of reintegrating the Taliban. "The Boss says
he's like a wounded animal," says a member of the general's team. "Holbrooke keeps hearing rumors that he's going to
get fired, so that makes him dangerous. He's a brilliant guy, but he just comes in, pulls on a lever, whatever he can grasp
onto. But this is COIN, and you can't just have someone yanking on shit."
At one point on his trip to Paris, McChrystal checks his BlackBerry. "Oh, not another e-mail from Holbrooke," he groans. "I
don't even want to open it." He clicks on the message and reads the salutation out loud, then stuffs the BladkBerry back in
his pocket, not bothering to conceal his annoyance.
"Make sure you don't get any of that on your leg," an aide jokes, referring to the e-mail.
By far the most crucial — and strained — relationship is between McChrystal and Eikenberry, the U.S. ambassador.
According to those close to the two men, Eikenberry — a retired three-star general who served in Afghanistan in 2002 and
2005 — can't stand that his former subordinate is now calling the shots. He's also furious that McChrystal, backed by
NATO's allies, refused to put Eikenberry in the pivotal role of viceroy in Afghanistan, which would have made him the
diplomatic equivalent of the general. The job instead went to British Ambassador Mark Sedwill — a move that effectively
increased McChrystal's influence over diplomacy by shutting out a powerful rival. "In reality, that position needs to be filled
by an American for it to have weight," says a U.S. official familiar with the negotiations.
The relationship was further strained in January, when a classified cable that Eikenberry wrote was leaked to The New
York Times. The cable was as scathing as it was prescient. The ambassador offered a brutal critique of McChrystal's
strategy, dismissed President Hamid Karzai as "not an adequate strategic partner," and cast doubt on whether the
counterinsurgency plan would be "sufficient" to deal with Al Qaeda. "We will become more deeply engaged here with no
way to extricate ourselves," Eikenberry warned, "short of allowing the country to descend again into lawlessness and
chaos."
McChrystal and his team were blindsided by the cable. "I like Karl, I've known him for years, but they'd never said
anything like that to us before," says McChrystal, who adds that he felt "betrayed" by the leak. "Here's one that covers his
flank for the history books. Now if we fail, they can say, 'I told you so.'"
The most striking example of McChrystal's usurpation of diplomatic policy is his handling of Karzai. It is McChrystal, not
diplomats like Eikenberry or Holbrooke, who enjoys the best relationship with the man America is relying on to lead
Afghanistan. The doctrine of counterinsurgency requires a credible government, and since Karzai is not considered
credible by his own people, McChrystal has worked hard to make him so. Over the past few months, he has accompanied
the president on more than 10 trips around the country, standing beside him at political meetings, or shuras, in Kandahar.
In February, the day before the doomed offensive in Marja, McChrystal even drove over to the president's palace to get
him to sign off on what would be the largest military operation of the year. Karzai's staff, however, insisted that the
president was sleeping off a cold and could not be disturbed. After several hours of haggling, McChrystal finally enlisted
the aid of Afghanistan's defense minister, who persuaded Karzai's people to wake the president from his nap.
This is one of the central flaws with McChrystal's counterinsurgency strategy: The need to build a credible government
puts us at the mercy of whatever tin-pot leader we've backed — a danger that Eikenberry explicitly warned about in his
cable. Even Team McChrystal privately acknowledges that Karzai is a less-than-ideal partner. "He's been locked up in his
palace the past year," laments one of the general's top advisers. At times, Karzai himself has actively undermined
McChrystal's desire to put him in charge. During a recent visit to Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Karzai met three U.S.
soldiers who had been wounded in Uruzgan province. "General," he called out to McChrystal, "I didn't even know we were
fighting in Uruzgan!"
Growing up as a military brat, McChrystal exhibited the mixture of brilliance and cockiness that would follow him
throughout his career. His father fought in Korea and Vietnam, retiring as a two-star general, and his four brothers all
joined the armed services. Moving around to different bases, McChrystal took solace in baseball, a sport in which he
made no pretense of hiding his superiority: In Little League, he would call out strikes to the crowd before whipping a
fastball down the middle.
McChrystal entered West Point in 1972, when the U.S. military was close to its all-time low in popularity. His class was the
last to graduate before the academy started to admit women. The "Prison on the Hudson," as it was known then, was a
potent mix of testosterone, hooliganism and reactionary patriotism. Cadets repeatedly trashed the mess hall in food fights,
and birthdays were celebrated with a tradition called "rat fucking," which often left the birthday boy outside in the snow or
mud, covered in shaving cream. "It was pretty out of control," says Lt. Gen. David Barno, a classmate who went on to
serve as the top commander in Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005. The class, filled with what Barno calls "huge talent" and
"wild-eyed teenagers with a strong sense of idealism," also produced Gen. Ray Odierno, the current commander of U.S.
forces in Iraq.
The son of a general, McChrystal was also a ringleader of the campus dissidents — a dual role that taught him how to
thrive in a rigid, top-down environment while thumbing his nose at authority every chance he got. He accumulated more
than 100 hours of demerits for drinking, partying and insubordination — a record that his classmates boasted made him a
"century man." One classmate, who asked not to be named, recalls finding McChrystal passed out in the shower after
downing a case of beer he had hidden under the sink. The troublemaking almost got him kicked out, and he spent hours
subjected to forced marches in the Area, a paved courtyard where unruly cadets were disciplined. "I'd come visit, and I'd
end up spending most of my time in the library, while Stan was in the Area," recalls Annie, who began dating McChrystal
in 1973.
McChrystal wound up ranking 298 out of a class of 855, a serious underachievement for a man widely regarded as
brilliant. His most compelling work was extracurricular: As managing editor of The Pointer, the West Point literary
magazine, McChrystal wrote seven short stories that eerily foreshadow many of the issues he would confront in his
career. In one tale, a fictional officer complains about the difficulty of training foreign troops to fight; in another, a 19-year-
old soldier kills a boy he mistakes for a terrorist. In "Brinkman's Note," a piece of suspense fiction, the unnamed narrator
appears to be trying to stop a plot to assassinate the president. It turns out, however, that the narrator himself is the
assassin, and he's able to infiltrate the White House: "The President strode in smiling. From the right coat pocket of the
raincoat I carried, I slowly drew forth my 32-caliber pistol. In Brinkman's failure, I had succeeded."
After graduation, 2nd Lt. Stanley McChrystal entered an Army that was all but broken in the wake of Vietnam. "We really
felt we were a peacetime generation," he recalls. "There was the Gulf War, but even that didn't feel like that big of a deal."
So McChrystal spent his career where the action was: He enrolled in Special Forces school and became a regimental
commander of the 3rd Ranger Battalion in 1986. It was a dangerous position, even in peacetime — nearly two dozen
Rangers were killed in training accidents during the Eighties. It was also an unorthodox career path: Most soldiers who
want to climb the ranks to general don't go into the Rangers. Displaying a penchant for transforming systems he considers
outdated, McChrystal set out to revolutionize the training regime for the Rangers. He introduced mixed martial arts,
required every soldier to qualify with night-vision goggles on the rifle range and forced troops to build up their endurance
with weekly marches involving heavy backpacks.
In the late 1990s, McChrystal shrewdly improved his inside game, spending a year at Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government and then at the Council on Foreign Relations, where he co-authored a treatise on the merits and drawbacks
of humanitarian interventionism. But as he moved up through the ranks, McChrystal relied on the skills he had learned as
a troublemaking kid at West Point: knowing precisely how far he could go in a rigid military hierarchy without getting
tossed out. Being a highly intelligent badass, he discovered, could take you far — especially in the political chaos that
followed September 11th. "He was very focused," says Annie. "Even as a young officer he seemed to know what he
wanted to do. I don't think his personality has changed in all these years."
By some accounts, McChrystal's career should have been over at least two times by now. As Pentagon spokesman
during the invasion of Iraq, the general seemed more like a White House mouthpiece than an up-and-coming commander
with a reputation for speaking his mind. When Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld made his infamous "stuff happens"
remark during the looting of Baghdad, McChrystal backed him up. A few days later, he echoed the president's Mission
Accomplished gaffe by insisting that major combat operations in Iraq were over. But it was during his next stint —
overseeing the military's most elite units, including the Rangers, Navy Seals and Delta Force — that McChrystal took part
in a cover-up that would have destroyed the career of a lesser man.
After Cpl. Pat Tillman, the former-NFL-star-turned-Ranger, was accidentally killed by his own troops in Afghanistan in April
2004, McChrystal took an active role in creating the impression that Tillman had died at the hands of Taliban fighters. He
signed off on a falsified recommendation for a Silver Star that suggested Tillman had been killed by enemy fire.
(McChrystal would later claim he didn't read the recommendation closely enough — a strange excuse for a commander
known for his laserlike attention to minute details.) A week later, McChrystal sent a memo up the chain of command,
specifically warning that President Bush should avoid mentioning the cause of Tillman's death. "If the circumstances of
Corporal Tillman's death become public," he wrote, it could cause "public embarrassment" for the president.
"The false narrative, which McChrystal clearly helped construct, diminished Pat's true actions," wrote Tillman's mother,
Mary, in her book Boots on the Ground by Dusk. McChrystal got away with it, she added, because he was the "golden
boy" of Rumsfeld and Bush, who loved his willingness to get things done, even if it included bending the rules or skipping
the chain of command. Nine days after Tillman's death, McChrystal was promoted to major general.
Two years later, in 2006, McChrystal was tainted by a scandal involving detainee abuse and torture at Camp Nama in
Iraq. According to a report by Human Rights Watch, prisoners at the camp were subjected to a now-familiar litany of
abuse: stress positions, being dragged naked through the mud. McChrystal was not disciplined in the scandal, even
though an interrogator at the camp reported seeing him inspect the prison multiple times. But the experience was so
unsettling to McChrystal that he tried to prevent detainee operations from being placed under his command in
Afghanistan, viewing them as a "political swamp," according to a U.S. official. In May 2009, as McChrystal prepared for
his confirmation hearings, his staff prepared him for hard questions about Camp Nama and the Tillman cover-up. But the
scandals barely made a ripple in Congress, and McChrystal was soon on his way back to Kabul to run the war in
Afghanistan.
The media, to a large extent, have also given McChrystal a pass on both controversies. Where Gen. Petraeus is kind of a
dweeb, a teacher's pet with a Ranger's tab, McChrystal is a snake-eating rebel, a "Jedi" commander, as Newsweek called
him. He didn't care when his teenage son came home with blue hair and a mohawk. He speaks his mind with a candor
rare for a high-ranking official. He asks for opinions, and seems genuinely interested in the response. He gets briefings on
his iPod and listens to books on tape. He carries a custom-made set of nunchucks in his convoy engraved with his name
and four stars, and his itinerary often bears a fresh quote from Bruce Lee. ("There are no limits. There are only plateaus,
and you must not stay there, you must go beyond them.") He went out on dozens of nighttime raids during his time in Iraq,
unprecedented for a top commander, and turned up on missions unannounced, with almost no entourage. "The fucking
lads love Stan McChrystal," says a British officer who serves in Kabul. "You'd be out in Somewhere, Iraq, and someone
would take a knee beside you, and a corporal would be like 'Who the fuck is that?' And it's fucking Stan McChrystal."
It doesn't hurt that McChrystal was also extremely successful as head of the Joint Special Operations Command, the elite
forces that carry out the government's darkest ops. During the Iraq surge, his team killed and captured thousands of
insurgents, including Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of Al Qaeda in Iraq. "JSOC was a killing machine," says Maj. Gen.
Mayville, his chief of operations. McChrystal was also open to new ways of killing. He systematically mapped out terrorist
networks, targeting specific insurgents and hunting them down — often with the help of cyberfreaks traditionally shunned
by the military. "The Boss would find the 24-year-old kid with a nose ring, with some fucking brilliant degree from MIT,
sitting in the corner with 16 computer monitors humming," says a Special Forces commando who worked with McChrystal
in Iraq and now serves on his staff in Kabul. "He'd say, 'Hey — you fucking muscleheads couldn't find lunch without help.
You got to work together with these guys.'"
Even in his new role as America's leading evangelist for counterinsurgency, McChrystal retains the deep-seated instincts
of a terrorist hunter. To put pressure on the Taliban, he has upped the number of Special Forces units in Afghanistan from
four to 19. "You better be out there hitting four or five targets tonight," McChrystal will tell a Navy Seal he sees in the
hallway at headquarters. Then he'll add, "I'm going to have to scold you in the morning for it, though." In fact, the general
frequently finds himself apologizing for the disastrous consequences of counterinsurgency. In the first four months of this
year, NATO forces killed some 90 civilians, up 76 percent from the same period in 2009 — a record that has created
tremendous resentment among the very population that COIN theory is intent on winning over. In February, a Special
Forces night raid ended in the deaths of two pregnant Afghan women and allegations of a cover-up, and in April, protests
erupted in Kandahar after U.S. forces accidentally shot up a bus, killing five Afghans. "We've shot an amazing number of
people," McChrystal recently conceded.
Despite the tragedies and miscues, McChrystal has issued some of the strictest directives to avoid civilian casualties that
the U.S. military has ever encountered in a war zone. It's "insurgent math," as he calls it — for every innocent person you
kill, you create 10 new enemies. He has ordered convoys to curtail their reckless driving, put restrictions on the use of air
power and severely limited night raids. He regularly apologizes to Hamid Karzai when civilians are killed, and berates
commanders responsible for civilian deaths. "For a while," says one U.S. official, "the most dangerous place to be in
Afghanistan was in front of McChrystal after a 'civ cas' incident." The ISAF command has even discussed ways to make
not killing into something you can win an award for: There's talk of creating a new medal for "courageous restraint," a
buzzword that's unlikely to gain much traction in the gung-ho culture of the U.S. military.
But however strategic they may be, McChrystal's new marching orders have caused an intense backlash among his own
troops. Being told to hold their fire, soldiers complain, puts them in greater danger. "Bottom line?" says a former Special
Forces operator who has spent years in Iraq and Afghanistan. "I would love to kick McChrystal in the nuts. His rules of
engagement put soldiers' lives in even greater danger. Every real soldier will tell you the same thing."
In March, McChrystal traveled to Combat Outpost JFM — a small encampment on the outskirts of Kandahar — to confront
such accusations from the troops directly. It was a typically bold move by the general. Only two days earlier, he had
received an e-mail from Israel Arroyo, a 25-year-old staff sergeant who asked McChrystal to go on a mission with his unit.
"I am writing because it was said you don't care about the troops and have made it harder to defend ourselves," Arroyo
wrote.
Within hours, McChrystal responded personally: "I'm saddened by the accusation that I don't care about soldiers, as it is
something I suspect any soldier takes both personally and professionally — at least I do. But I know perceptions depend
upon your perspective at the time, and I respect that every soldier's view is his own." Then he showed up at Arroyo's
outpost and went on a foot patrol with the troops — not some bullshit photo-op stroll through a market, but a real live
operation in a dangerous war zone.
Six weeks later, just before McChrystal returned from Paris, the general received another e-mail from Arroyo. A 23-year-
old corporal named Michael Ingram — one of the soldiers McChrystal had gone on patrol with — had been killed by an IED
a day earlier. It was the third man the 25-member platoon had lost in a year, and Arroyo was writing to see if the general
would attend Ingram's memorial service. "He started to look up to you," Arroyo wrote. McChrystal said he would try to
make it down to pay his respects as soon as possible.
The night before the general is scheduled to visit Sgt. Arroyo's platoon for the memorial, I arrive at Combat Outpost JFM
to speak with the soldiers he had gone on patrol with. JFM is a small encampment, ringed by high blast walls and guard
towers. Almost all of the soldiers here have been on repeated combat tours in both Iraq and Afghanistan, and have seen
some of the worst fighting of both wars. But they are especially angered by Ingram's death. His commanders had
repeatedly requested permission to tear down the house where Ingram was killed, noting that it was often used as a
combat position by the Taliban. But due to McChrystal's new restrictions to avoid upsetting civilians, the request had been
denied. "These were abandoned houses," fumes Staff Sgt. Kennith Hicks. "Nobody was coming back to live in them."
One soldier shows me the list of new regulations the platoon was given. "Patrol only in areas that you are reasonably
certain that you will not have to defend yourselves with lethal force," the laminated card reads. For a soldier who has
traveled halfway around the world to fight, that's like telling a cop he should only patrol in areas where he knows he won't
have to make arrests. "Does that make any fucking sense?" asks Pfc. Jared Pautsch. "We should just drop a fucking
bomb on this place. You sit and ask yourself: What are we doing here?"
The rules handed out here are not what McChrystal intended — they've been distorted as they passed through the chain of
command — but knowing that does nothing to lessen the anger of troops on the ground. "Fuck, when I came over here and
heard that McChrystal was in charge, I thought we would get our fucking gun on," says Hicks, who has served three tours
of combat. "I get COIN. I get all that. McChrystal comes here, explains it, it makes sense. But then he goes away on his
bird, and by the time his directives get passed down to us through Big Army, they're all fucked up — either because
somebody is trying to cover their ass, or because they just don't understand it themselves. But we're fucking losing this
thing."
McChrystal and his team show up the next day. Underneath a tent, the general has a 45-minute discussion with some two
dozen soldiers. The atmosphere is tense. "I ask you what's going on in your world, and I think it's important for you all to
understand the big picture as well," McChrystal begins. "How's the company doing? You guys feeling sorry for
yourselves? Anybody? Anybody feel like you're losing?" McChrystal says.
"Sir, some of the guys here, sir, think we're losing, sir," says Hicks.
McChrystal nods. "Strength is leading when you just don't want to lead," he tells the men. "You're leading by example.
That's what we do. Particularly when it's really, really hard, and it hurts inside." Then he spends 20 minutes talking about
counterinsurgency, diagramming his concepts and principles on a whiteboard. He makes COIN seem like common sense,
but he's careful not to bullshit the men. "We are knee-deep in the decisive year," he tells them. The Taliban, he insists, no
longer has the initiative — "but I don't think we do, either." It's similar to the talk he gave in Paris, but it's not winning any
hearts and minds among the soldiers. "This is the philosophical part that works with think tanks," McChrystal tries to joke.
"But it doesn't get the same reception from infantry companies."
During the question-and-answer period, the frustration boils over. The soldiers complain about not being allowed to use
lethal force, about watching insurgents they detain be freed for lack of evidence. They want to be able to fight — like they
did in Iraq, like they had in Afghanistan before McChrystal. 'We aren't putting fear into the Taliban," one soldier says.
"Winning hearts and minds in COIN is a coldblooded thing," McChrystal says, citing an oft-repeated maxim that you can't
kill your way out of Afghanistan. "The Russians killed 1 million Afghans, and that didn't work."
"I'm not saying go out and kill everybody, sir," the soldier persists. "You say we've stopped the momentum of the
insurgency. I don't believe that's true in this area. The more we pull back, the more we restrain ourselves, the stronger it's
getting."
"I agree with you," McChrystal says. "In this area, we've not made progress, probably. You have to show strength here,
you have to use fire. What I'm telling you is, fire costs you. What do you want to do? You want to wipe the population out
here and resettle it?"
A soldier complains that under the rules, any insurgent who doesn't have a weapon is immediately assumed to be a
civilian. "That's the way this game is," McChrystal says. "It's complex. I can't just decide: It's shirts and skins, and we'll kill
all the shirts."
As the discussion ends, McChrystal seems to sense that he hasn't succeeded at easing the men's anger. He makes one
last-ditch effort to reach them, acknowledging the death of Cpl. Ingram. "There's no way I can make that easier," he tells
them. "No way I can pretend it won't hurt. No way I can tell you not to feel that. . . . I will tell you, you're doing a great job.
Don't let the frustration get to you." The session ends with no clapping, and no real resolution. McChrystal may have sold
President Obama on counterinsurgency, but many of his own men aren't buying it.
When it comes to Afghanistan, history is not on McChrystal's side. The only foreign invader to have any success here
was Genghis Khan — and he wasn't hampered by things like human rights, economic development and press scrutiny.
The COIN doctrine, bizarrely, draws inspiration from some of the biggest Western military embarrassments in recent
memory: France's nasty war in Algeria (lost in 1962) and the American misadventure in Vietnam (lost in 1975).
McChrystal, like other advocates of COIN, readily acknowledges that counterinsurgency campaigns are inherently messy,
expensive and easy to lose. "Even Afghans are confused by Afghanistan," he says. But even if he somehow manages to
succeed, after years of bloody fighting with Afghan kids who pose no threat to the U.S. homeland, the war will do little to
shut down Al Qaeda, which has shifted its operations to Pakistan. Dispatching 150,000 troops to build new schools,
roads, mosques and water-treatment facilities around Kandahar is like trying to stop the drug war in Mexico by occupying
Arkansas and building Baptist churches in Little Rock. "It's all very cynical, politically," says Marc Sageman, a former CIA
case officer who has extensive experience in the region. "Afghanistan is not in our vital interest — there's nothing for us
there."
In mid-May, two weeks after visiting the troops in Kandahar, McChrystal travels to the White House for a high-level visit by
Hamid Karzai. It is a triumphant moment for the general, one that demonstrates he is very much in command — both in
Kabul and in Washington. In the East Room, which is packed with journalists and dignitaries, President Obama sings the
praises of Karzai. The two leaders talk about how great their relationship is, about the pain they feel over civilian
casualties. They mention the word "progress" 16 times in under an hour. But there is no mention of victory. Still, the •
session represents the most forceful commitment that Obama has made to McChrystal's strategy in months. "There is no
denying the progress that the Afghan people have made in recent years — in education, in health care and economic
development," the president says. "As I saw in the lights across Kabul when I landed — lights that would not have been
visible just a few years earlier."
It is a disconcerting observation for Obama to make. During the worst years in Iraq, when the Bush administration had no
real progress to point to, officials used to offer up the exact same evidence of success. "It was one of our first
impressions," one GOP official said in 2006, after landing in Baghdad at the height of the sectarian violence. "So many
lights shining brightly." So it is to the language of the Iraq War that the Obama administration has turned — talk of
progress, of city lights, of metrics like health care and education. Rhetoric that just a few years ago they would have
mocked. "They are trying to manipulate perceptions because there is no definition of victory — because victory is not even
defined or recognizable," says Celeste Ward, a senior defense analyst at the RAND Corporation who served as a political
adviser to U.S. commanders in Iraq in 2006. "That's the game we're in right now. What we need, for strategic purposes, is
to create the perception that we didn't get run off. The facts on the ground are not great, and are not going to become
great in the near future."
But facts on the ground, as history has proven, offer little deterrent to a military determined to stay the course. Even those
closest to McChrystal know that the rising anti-war sentiment at home doesn't begin to reflect how deeply fucked up things
are in Afghanistan. "If Americans pulled back and started paying attention to this war, it would become even less popular,"
a senior adviser to McChrystal says. Such realism, however, doesn't prevent advocates of counterinsurgency from
dreaming big: Instead of beginning to withdraw troops next year, as Obama promised, the military hopes to ramp up its
counterinsurgency campaign even further. "There's a possibility we could ask for another surge of U.S. forces next
summer if we see success here," a senior military official in Kabul tells me.
Back in Afghanistan, less than a month after the White House meeting with Karzai and all the talk of "progress,"
McChrystal is hit by the biggest blow to his vision of counterinsurgency. Since last year, the Pentagon had been planning
to launch a major military operation this summer in Kandahar, the country's second-largest city and the Taliban's original
home base. It was supposed to be a decisive turning point in the war — the primary reason for the troop surge that
McChrystal wrested from Obama late last year. But on June 10th, acknowledging that the military still needs to lay more
groundwork, the general announced that he is postponing the offensive until the fall. Rather than one big battle, like
Fallujah or Ramadi, U.S. troops will implement what McChrystal calls a "rising tide of security." The Afghan police and
army will enter Kandahar to attempt to seize control of neighborhoods, while the U.S. pours $90 million of aid into the city
to win over the civilian population.
Even proponents of counterinsurgency are hard-pressed to explain the new plan. "This isn't a classic operation," says a
U.S. military official. "It's not going to be Black Hawk Down. There aren't going to be doors kicked in." Other U.S. officials
insist that doors are going to be kicked in, but that it's going to be a kinder, gentler offensive than the disaster in Marja.
"The Taliban have a jackboot on the city," says a military official. "We have to remove them, but we have to do it in a way
that doesn't alienate the population." When Vice President Biden was briefed on the new plan in the Oval Office, insiders
say he was shocked to see how much it mirrored the more gradual plan of counterterrorism that he advocated last fall.
"This looks like CT-plus!" he said, according to U.S. officials familiar with the meeting.
Whatever the nature of the new plan, the delay underscores the fundamental flaws of counterinsurgency. After nine years
of war, the Taliban simply remains too strongly entrenched for the U.S. military to openly attack. The very people that
COIN seeks to win over — the Afghan people — do not want us there. Our supposed ally, President Karzai, used his
influence to delay the offensive, and the massive influx of aid championed by McChrystal is likely only to make things
worse. "Throwing money at the problem exacerbates the problem," says Andrew Wilder, an expert at Tufts University who
has studied the effect of aid in southern Afghanistan. "A tsunami of cash fuels corruption, delegitimizes the government
and creates an environment where we're picking winners and losers" — a process that fuels resentment and hostility
among the civilian population. So far, counterinsurgency has succeeded only in creating a never-ending demand for the
primary product supplied by the military: perpetual war. There is a reason that President Obama studiously avoids using
the word "victory" when he talks about Afghanistan. Winning, it would seem, is not really possible. Not even with
Stanley McChrystal in charge.
This article originally appeared in RS 1108/1109 from July 8-22, 2010.
 --- 

W I'll send you details later
Sent from my iPad
On 15 Jun 2010, at 02:37, "H" <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
> I would be happy to meet w hiim. How should I follow up to arrange a mutually agreeable time? All the best to you.
>
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Yes I am. Huma is here too
 --- 

Will do.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
direct)
 --- 


 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B6
Gert: thank you for sending the letter to
retirement.
on the occasion of her
flew in to surprise her at the luncheon. It was a great day
all around for a great lady. Thanks again. B
 --- 

FYI. Thanks again for signing the book ---- and I do hope you get royalties from Mongolia! Also thought you would like to
see the attached letter to President Clinton.
 --- 


 --- 

Westewelle cannot do call at 7:30.
Holbrooke says he needs to talk to you
 --- 

How about arranging a phone call between the two of you first to discuss the issues briefly then you could agree
mutually when to meet.
If you give me a time when you can take a quick phone call from the Crown Prince I will get the number for you to ring.
Cherie Blair
 --- 

FYI — see traffic below mine.
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

Lona Valmoro
t to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

You are scheduled to meet with the Danish Foreign Minister on Friday. The Danes are interested in partnering with the
US on a side event at the Kabul
Conference focused on Afghan women. I think this has potential and I'll raise with SRAP, but wanted you to know -- in
case it comes up in your meeting.
When I met with a couple of the Afghan women who participated in the recent peace jirga, they told me that it would
send a very strong message if a large group of women representing Afghan civil society could meet with you when you
are in Kabul for the conference. I don't know if it will be possible to arrange such a large gathering, but perhaps
something significant can be arranged.
Melanne S. Verveer
Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues
U.S. Department of State
2201 C Street NW, Room 6805
Washington, DC 20520
Tel: (202) 647-7283
Fax: (202) 647-7288
VerveerMS@state.gov
 --- 

Cheryl and I discussed how to do an effective strategy session. Monday early afternoon is the first clear shot we have at
getting the right group of people in the room together for an extended period of time.
We propose to start the discussion from the following premise: We've addressed, in one fashion or another, to one
degree of satisfaction or another, most of the major items we set out at the beginning of last near. We've moved the
needle, but we haven't changed the game. Now the question is, what are the major milestones over the next 12-18
months? What should we be aiming at? And especially, what are some potential game-changers — moves that would
shift the global landscape in meaningful and long-lasting ways?
Everything will be on the table — regional issues, transnational issues, etc. Everyone should read the book of look-ahead
papers; identify things they think we should pursue; and add ideas — especially creative and far-reaching ideas — on top
of what's contained in them.
We propose the following roster:
Jim
Jack
Bill
AMS
Derek
CDM
Jake
Rich
Kurt
Judith
Harold
Let us know what you think.
Jake
 --- 

From Toiv, Nora F
Sent: Tuesday, June 15, 2010 1:27 PM
To: Mills, Cheryl D
Subject: Remarks to participants at High Level Meeting on Food Security for All
1/26/09
S. Remarks to participants at High Level Meeting on Food Security for All
President Obama has made clear that alleviating hunger worldwide is a top priority of this Administration. As he said on
the first day of his Presidency, "to the people of poor nations, we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms
flourish and let clean waters flow; to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds." The President and I intend to focus
new attention on food security so that developing nations can invest in food production, affordability, accessibility,
education and technology.
http://www.state.gov/secretary/rm/2009a/01/115585.htm
 --- 

Reines, Philippe I
Wednesday, June 23, 2010 3:41 PM
H
Valmoro, Lona J; Hanley, Monica R
Tonight
So DS will take you from the WH
 --- 

Afghanistan
FYL
Statement by Ambassador Mark Sedwill, NATO's Senior Civilian Representative to Afghanistan
Stan McChrystal is one of the finest men I have ever known. He is and will remain a lifelong
friend.
General McChrystal has also been an outstanding military commander who was pivotal in
creating and driving forward NATO's strategy in Afghanistan to regain the initiative against
the insurgency, resolve the political tensions which fuel it and transition responsibility to the
Government of Afghanistan as we help build their capabilities.
This strategy remains the basis of the campaign. The campaign remains on course. The
Afghan people should have no doubt of our commitment to build a stable Afghanistan and a
safer world.
I look forward to working with General David Petraeus whose remarkable track record speaks
for itself. He will provide the continuity and strong leadership required to meet the challenges
ahead.
Dominic Medley
SCR Spokesman/Media Advisor
medlev.dominic@hq.nato.int
dominic.medlev@hq.isaf.nato.int
+93 793 38 4008
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <Sullivann@state.gov>
Wednesday, June 23, 2010 5:06 PM
FW:
FYI on
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Now hearing that If you that's great - same plan. If you
come back to office, just need to tell Huma what you would have told her via email, that you're skipping the concert
Again, your tickets and concert plans will not be altered, we've assured that can't happen
 --- 

Overall the speech is worth reading; if you like I'll have it put in your weekend book. 2 passages
particularly worth noting.
1. "Across the Atlantic, Hilary Clinton has pledged to put women 'front and center' of the American development
agenda. That is the right choice. As David Cameron and Jeff Sachs argued earlier this year, women can hold the
key to development in the world's poorest countries — in education, enterprise, micro-finance and healthcare.
Investing in women pays dividends throughout the entire community."
2. "I see DFID as a key, joined-up, integrated department, a bright star in the Whitehall constellation, a department
of state for development in the developing world. That's why DFID has a seat at the Cabinet table and it's why I
won't be satisfied until our message rings down the corridors of each and every department in Whitehall."
We obviously don't love the "dept of state for development language," but what is most
noteworthy is his emphasis on "joined-up" and "integrated" dept — underlining the fact that
DFID as a separate cabinet department has been almost divorced from the rest of the
government.
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
 --- 

ok sounds good.
 --- 

do I have the plan right?
 --- 

also, IF you want to do any foreign/mccrystal calls:
- frattini can talk now (till 6pm)
- cannon can talk after 7pm
rest will have to be tomorrow (if we do them at all)
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Valmoro, Lona J <VaIrnoroU@state.gov>
Wednesday, June 23, 2010 5:58 PM
preines
Hanley, Monica R
Re: Tonight
Lona Valmoro
S ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

PIR <preines _
Wednesday, June 23, 2010 6:51 PM
H; Lona Valmoro
'hanleymr@state.gov'
Re: Tonight
Where did you say you are going?
 --- 

PIR <preines
Wednesday, June 23, 2010 6:54 PM
H; Lona Valmoro
'hanleymr@state.gov'
Re: Tonight
Huma still at your house?
 --- 

Bagley and Tauscher are all set with their tickets.
Mikulski will get here close to your arrival time so you might walk in with her - pls let me know if that's a problem.
Pelosi is coming separately and is seated close to you.
 --- 

Thanks. Tauscher here. Mikulski around the corner. Will see you soon.
 --- 

I am currently traveling outside of the country with limited access to email. If you need immediate assistance, please
contact Nora Toiv (ToivNF@state.gov) or Joanne Laszczych, (Laszczychi@state.gov) at 202-647-5548.
If it is an emergency after business hours, please reach out to our Operations Center to have them reach me.
Thank you
cdm
 --- 

http://www.salon.com/news/bill_clinton/index.html?story=/politics/war_room/2010/06/23/bill_clinton_world_cup
Wednesday, Jun 23, 2010 14:22 ET
PIVar Room
Bill Clinton to U.S. soccer team: "You are amazing!"
By Joe Conason
•
AP/Michael Sohn
Former President Bill Clinton at the World Cup group C soccer match between the United States and Algeria in Pretoria,
South Africa on Wednesday
Salon's Joe Conason is traveling with Bill Clinton in Africa this week and was with the former president at today's U.S.
World Cup soccer game in Pretoria. He filed this report:
Minutes after Landon Donovan scored the stunning extra-time goal that won a critical World Cup match against Algeria,
Bill Clinton and several of his aides and friends (including former Democratic National Committee Chairman Terry
McAuliffe) were escorted downstairs to the U.S. team's locker room. The American players roared with pride as the former
president (and honorary chairman of the committee bidding to bring the World Cup to the U.S. in 2018 or 2022) walked in.
After a round of embraces, handshakes and high fives, he spoke briefly about his joy in their victory: "I'm proud of you
because you didn't let the frustration of all the shots that you almost made get you down. You are amazing!"
Much posing for pictures ensued with the shirtless, whooping, chest-bumping players -- who couldn't quite seem to
believe they had done it.
The team then invited Clinton alone to join them in the inner locker room, where he could be glimpsed toasting them with
a beer amid much additional hollering. When he emerged 10 minutes or so later, he had a broad smile and a hoarse
voice.
As Clinton left for Johannesburg, where he will meet tomorrow with former President Nelson Mandela, one of the players
chased him out into the hall and handed one of the former president's aides an official ball signed by all the members of
Team USA.
Clinton stopped for just a moment to talk with the local press before disappearing in a convoy of flashing lights and sirens.
"If it hadn't been the decisive game, even I would have said it should have been a tie," he said. "It was a great game. You
know, all great contests become head games at some point -- sports, elections, wars. And they [Team USA] have good
heads and good hearts."
 --- 

Sorry to confirm they are not in.
 --- 

Copying Rich -- I cannot explain. He was with us until 6 pm yesterday when he reached the conclusion that it would
bring down the rule.
 --- 

Berman went to the leadership meeting yesterday to make his case for fees - that's what they must be referring to. It
was after that meeting that the blue dogs and hoyer told him no.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Hanley, Monica R <HanleyMR©state.gov>
Wednesday, June 23, 2010 10:41 PM
Huma Abedin
She unfortunately can't come this week - she's away until Tuesday. Will see if Tuesday night or Wednesday morning
works with your schedule.
 --- 

Hanley, Monica R <HanleyMR@state.gov>
Wednesday, June 23, 2010 10:41 PM
Re:
Yes she's in Hawaii until Tuesday morning. She can do Tuesday evening ot Wednesday if that works for you
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Thursday, June 17, 2010 8:42 AM
Abedin, Huma; Verma, Richard R
Gaza language
 --- 

FYI
McHale, Judith A <McHaIeJA©state.goy>
Thursday, June 17, 2010 11:56 AM
Abedin, Huma; Sullivan, Jacob J; Mills, Cheryl D
FW: Pew Global Attitudes 22-Nation Poll
 --- 

NOTE TO HRC...
 --- 


 --- 

For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

Haley posted this today on website:
Another Good Visit
Posted 26 minutes ago
 --- 

May 7, 2010 — Ben Rhodes briefing:
"We've identified July 2011 as the beginning point of a transition to an Afghan lead in certain instances.
Again, the reductions that will follow July 2011 will be based upon conditions on the ground."
 --- 

FYI — on Jackon/Vanik re: Russia. Will send more information as we get it.
 --- 

Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

I am on travel and will not return to the office until Tuesday, July 6. If you need immediate assistance please contact
Marisa McAuliffe by phone at 202-647-2972 or email at McauliffeMS@state.gov.
 --- 

8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am PARTY FOR DAN SMITH
9:30 am Treaty Room, 7.Floor
9:30 am WEEKLY MEETING w/UN AMBASSADOR SUSAN RICE
10:00 am Secretary's Office
10:15 am WORLD REFUGEE DAY EVENT
10:25 am Benjamin Franklin Room, eFloor *Approx. 200 ppl expected.
10:45 am BILATERAL w/DANISH DPM/FM LENE ESPERSEN
11:15 am Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
11:15 am PRESS PRE-BRIEF
11:20 am Secretary's Office
11:20 am JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/DANISH DPM/FM ESPERSEN
11:35 am Treaty Room
11:40 am OFFICE TIME
12:00 pm Secretary's Office
12:00 pm DEPART State Department *En route NFATC
12:15 pm ARRIVE NFATC
12:15 pm DEDICATION CEREMONY TO MARK THE EXPANSION OF
1:00 pm FOREIGN SERVICE INSTITUTE/GEORGE P. SHULTZ CENTER
National Foreign Affairs Training Center *Approx. 500 ppl expected.
1:05 pm DEPART NFATC *En route Washington National Airport
1:20 pm ARRIVE Washington National Airport
2:00 pm DEPART Washington National Airport
*En route New York, NY
3:25 pm ARRIVE New York, LaGuardia Airport
3:35 pm DEPART New York, LaGuardia Airport *En route Private Residence
4:20 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
 --- 

Hope it's helpful, Horton is very well informed and trustworthy
 --- 


 --- 

Importance: High
 --- 

Just met with Fr Gudziak. He will come back to Kyiv for your visit!
Also John Tefft saw him in Lviv. He is so grateful for the strong support you have delivered.
Sent via BlackBerry from T-Mobile
 --- 

Think we came to a resolution on government procurement, and civ nuke. Jury is still out on shoulds/shalls.
 --- 

8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am OFFICE TIME
10:00 am Secretary's Office
10:00 am PRIVATE MEETING
10:10 am Secretary's Office
10:15 am BRIEFING ON GLOBAL HEALTH INITIATIVE ISSUES
11:15 am Secretary's Outer Office
11:30 am WEEKLY DEVELOPMENT TEAM MEETING
12:30 pm Secretary's Outer Office
12:30 pm OFFICE TIME
1:15 pm Secretary's Office
1:20 pm DEPART State Department
En route Washington Reagan National Airport
1:40 pm ARRIVE Washington Reagan National Airport
2:00 pm DEPART Washington Reagan National Airport via US Airways Shuttle #2174
En route New York, NY
3:25 pm ARRIVE New York, New York-LaGuardia Airport
3:35 pm DEPART New York-LaGuardia Airport
En route Private Residence
4:25 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
#:#4
 --- 

FYI
I think we need smart ways to get one or two more folks in — like — Dan Baer and few others like that.
 --- 

You fine with this for the P meeting on Monday— scroll down for all invitees.
 --- 

fvi
 --- 

Let me see what dates might work for this group.
 --- 

We are going to postpone Monday's and start with tues or weds.
 --- 

We sent the paper on consular fees to Tanner today, and his staff confirmed that he has received
it. Assuming Tanner continues to be supportive, we need him to let Hoyer know he supports our effort.
Additionally, Jack thinks it is important for you to talk to Pelosi. Berman mentioned that as well. I can send a
call sheet just in case you have a chance to connect with her.
Thanks again for stopping by the AIPAC meeting. It really helped close out some important issues.
 --- 

Fyi traffic
 --- 

Dan will stay through Monday to work
The next step would be to work toi
 --- 

Below is the update I have as of yesterday - still waiting on today's update and Dan is working the language on a number
of points. I will get you the latest either late tonight or tomorrow morning.
Based on our discussions so far,
DRAFT STATEMENT
DISCUSSION
ANALYSIS
For us, there is merit
 --- 

See hus analysis of where we are on EAS but also on the US, Japan, and Chinese urbanization and trade patterns..
Nothing that new, but valuable coming from him.
The Australian - 19 Jun 10
Embracing everyone from the US to India Greg Sheridan, Foreign editor
GEORGE Yeo, Singapore's Foreign Minister, is one of the most dazzlingly clever people you could meet in Southeast
Asia. Singapore is a society that notoriously produces hardheads in its strategic outlook. But Yeo combines Singapore's
characteristic hard-headedness with a depth of historical understanding and context, as well as a lively human sympathy
for the diversity of the region that surrounds him, which I, at any event, find almost unique. I remember interviewing
him at the height of the East Asian economic crisis in 1997 and asking whether this crisis shattered the idea of Asia as
the growing centre of the global economy, as numerous foolishly triumphalist Western commentators were then
suggesting. "No it doesn't," Yeo told me. "At the most it might put back the forecasts by five or 10 years." It moved the
graph a little to the right, it didn't change the trends. On that, Yeo was absolutely right.
But it is also Yeo's ability to apply the insights of history to the real problems of Asia today which make him formidable.
This week, Yeo spent a few days in Australia and I caught up with him for one of those slightly mesmerising historical
tour de force conversations in which he specialises.
It is no secret Singapore had the most serious reservations about Kevin Rudd's proposal to establish an Asia-Pacific
Community. The Prime Minister wanted the US, India and Russia included in a regional body which could deal with
strategic issues as well as trade and economics. Singapore's hesitation over the Rudd proposal came because it thought
that the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, of which it is a key member, could be sidelined. I asked Yeo whether the
region was now clear on what it wanted its organisations to accomplish. "We still need a lot more discussion," he said.
"The vision is going to change dramatically, with the emergence of China and India on the global stage. The
configuration is evolving much faster than most of us would have preferred. But that's the reality we've got to work
with.
We need a regional architecture which is able to accommodate the stresses. The single most important relationship is
between the US and China. Increasingly, the relationship between India and China is becoming more important. I think
eventually a triangular relationship will decide the big issues of war and peace in Asia this century - the triangle
consisting of the US, China and India."
Yeo saw Rudd and Foreign Minister Stephen Smith in Canberra and now describes Canberra and Singapore as being in
harmony on the evolution of regional organisations. This is how he saw it having played out: "When Prime Minister Rudd
proposed the APC, Dick Woolcott (Rudd's envoy) went round the region. He did not visit all countries. He made it quite
plain to some that only the big countries of ASEAN need to be involved. We talked among ourselves and quite soon the
conclusion was reached that ASEAN was going to be sidelined. So there was an immediate blowback from the region.
"To PM Rudd's credit he quickly clarified this, that ASEAN is central to his conception of the APC and that that was his
vision from the very beginning. I said, 'All of us in the region are very relieved to hear that'.
"Separately we had (former Japanese) prime minister (Yukio) Hatoyama articulating his view of an East Asian region
apparently centred on China, Japan and Korea. It created, as you would expect, a natural reaction in Southeast Asia. That
got us all thinking in the region. How to keep Russia and the US in the region in a way that's comfortable. For a long time
we've been thinking about China, more recently about India." Yeo pointed out that earlier regional organisations also
evolved slowly, in particular the East Asia Summit, which includes Australia and New Zealand, as well as ASEAN, China,
Japan, South Korea and India. He said: "It took us a long time to create the EAS structure. Some preferred it to be based
on the ASEAN plus three (China, Japan, Korea), harking back to (former Malaysian prime minister) Mahathir
(Mohamad)'s East Asian caucus. "Others felt that's too limiting. If it's just ASEAN plus three, that may be a little lop-sided
because of the economic weight of the plus three. So we thought if we have India on one side, and Australia and New
Zealand to the south, there's a certain natural equipoise.
"Then it took many discussions. The Russians wanted to join the EAS but we felt this should not be rushed. Russia is too
important a country. There was some unhappiness from the Russians that we did not accommodate them in the EAS at
that time. (Former US) President (George W.) Bush did not want to join the EAS but he worried that the EAS might
exclude the US from the region. We told our American friends that it could not be purely an Asian thing because
Australia and New Zealand were in it. In any case, countries like Singapore would never want an EAS to be exclusive.
What would threaten us most is if the world developed into blocs."
So where do we end up today? "When I met PM Rudd I thanked him for helping to catalyse the thinking of ASEAN. So
now there are two possibilities, either an EAS expanded for Russia and the US or a separate ASEAN plus eight (including
the US and Russia) configuration. In fact I had a very interesting discussion with Prime Minister Rudd. I think in the end
he's happy to let ASEAN members decide and he doesn't want to interfere in our regional discussion."
So you can describe what Yeo outlines as either a win or a loss for Rudd. Whatever evolves, nobody is going to call it the
Asia-Pacific Community and no one is going to imagine that Rudd was its founder, as everyone accepts that Bob Hawke
founded APEC in 1989. On the other hand, it does seem as though it's very much more than likely that there will finally
be a regional organisation embracing everyone from the US to India, which is able to discuss security. That is pretty
much Rudd's policy aim and, as Yeo constructively puts it, Rudd has influenced ASEAN thinking. Friends of Rudd can
describe it as the embodiment of his vision and fulfilment of his initiative. His enemies can say the APC came to nothing
and was a failure in Australian diplomacy. Certainly Yeo casts it in a constructive light. There is only space to give the
smallest sampling of Yeo's prodigiously rich insights on other issues.
On the US, he said: "Both Australia and Singapore feel it in our bones that the US will remain a great power for many
decades. It is a vast country always throwing up new ideas, always on the boil. It has a sunny disposition. We in
Singapore and Australia feel it in our bones that one way or another they will get out of their current difficulties."
On China, I asked whether its political development was keeping pace with its growth in power, financial and military, so
it could manage that new power in a way that was beneficial to everybody. Yeo stressed that he was sure Beijing's
preoccupations were internal, and said: "China is the No 1 trading partner for Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India
and already No 2 for New Zealand, and for all the countries (in Asia) the graph points in the same direction."
(The historical process) is high drama in China. It was historically because of the large rural peasantry that Maoism
developed as a different ideology from Bolshevism. China was 20 per cent urban. It's now 40 per cent urban and will go
to 80 per cent or 90 per cent. The urbanisation of Europe was languid by comparison, but look at Dickens or Victor Hugo.
Look at the huge reaction in Europe to urbanisation and industrialisation. In China it's all compressed. If they succeed
they will be the greatest nation on Earth. The Chinese know they have to learn new tricks. The skills which brought them
to power won't keep them in power."
He recalled that early in China's economic modernisation program it was fascinated by how Singapore, as a mostly
Chinese nation, ran its society in such an orderly and effective manner, combining rapid economic growth with social
order and a respect for tradition. Then that interest seemed to wane. But now Chinese delegations are back again in
large numbers, fascinated particularly with how Singapore manages the politics of being a big and booming
city. Mainland Chinese are even sitting in on politicians' electoral clinics in Singapore, observing how real problems are
recognised, integrated into the system and dealt with.
I asked Yeo too whether he thought Japan could sustain the stabilising role it has played in Asia these past 60 years. He
replied: "Their politics now are a mess. Partly because they fit the pieces together so closely, reconfiguring the pieces is-
difficult. A lot of Japanese politics now is not about fitting the pieces together but pulling them apart.
"The DP1 came to power determined to pull the pieces apart, the Liberal Democratic Party from big business from the
bureacracy. Never write Japan off. It takes a long time for them to change but when they do change they do it with a
fury and intensity that surprises everyone." Japan has gone through profound periods of change in the past - the Meiji
Restoration of the 19th century, in which it decided to become a modern nation; or the pervasive change after World
War II, in which it decided to embrace democracy and the role of the key US ally in the region. The fact that it is now
grappling with change is no reason to think it cannot emerge again with a successful model.
Yeo is an old, old friend of Australia, and in a sense a long-term champion of Australia's involvement in Southeast Asia.
He has been a minister in the Singapore government for more than 20 years. He embodies a great deal of institutional
memory and strategic continuity, not just within Singapore but within the broader councils of the region.
It's just a pity he doesn't visit us a bit more often.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Attached is the PPD.
 --- 


 --- 

We had brief conversation about it with paul a while ago but we didn't know how early conf would start.
 --- 

Just sent oscar call sheets for nita lowey and greek fm papandraeou for you.
I think jake may have told you the aide to the Greek Minister of Citizens Protection was killed in the protests earlier this
week. EUR has made request that you place a condolence call to FM Papandreou this weekend. The week is going to be
tough politically and personally for the FM. The Minister of Citizens Protection has resigned as a result of the protests
and deaths. let me know if u want to.
Also, we have abdullah call for either tomorrow or monday. Waiting fo them to get back to us.
 --- 


 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, June 27, 2010 6:48 AM
Re: With deep gratitude
 --- 

Absolutely.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, June 27, 2010 10:35 AM
H: memo on UK politics/budget/economy Sid
hrc memo uk politialeconomy 062710.docx
June 27, 2010
For: HRC
 --- 

AdlerCE@state.gov
 --- 

Great - I will work with Claire to find a good time. Enjoy the rest of your weekend!
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

No date from slim.
We will follow up on all
 --- 

Me, too. On Oz.
On UK, been in touch with people, more this coming week. With Labour leadership contest going through summer there's
no real opposition, which is just as well, let Cameron/Clegg dig their own hole. Labour needs a new face after Gordon.
Lots of internal tensions inside LDs, will only get worse. They are seen as the enablers. This can't be sustained. This
budget isn't the end either. College tuition probably to double this fall, among other new measures.
 --- 

Hilary can you give me a telephone number the Qatar Crown Prince can ring you on and he will get in touch.
Alternatively I can get his personal phone number for you. What is the best for you?
Cherie Blair
 --- 

In case you want to connect directly
Otherwise lauren can track for you
 --- 

Reminder
 --- 

Lowey to Remove Assistance for Afghanistan From Foreign Aid Bill
Chairwoman Announces Oversight Hearings on Corruption in Afghanistan
WASHINGTON — In light of two troubling news reports on corruption within the Afghan government, Congresswoman
Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chairwoman of the Appropriations State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, today announced
she is removing funding for Afghanistan beyond humanitarian aid from her 2011 bill scheduled for markup this week.
"The alleged shipment of billions in donor funds out of Afghanistan and allegations of Afghan government insiders
impeding corruption investigations are outrageous," said Lowey. "I do not intend to appropriate one more dime for
assistance to Afghanistan until I have confidence that U.S. taxpayer money is not being abused to line the pockets of
corrupt Afghan government officials, drug lords, and terrorists. Furthermore, the government of Afghanistan must
demonstrate that corruption is being aggressively investigated and prosecuted.
"Rampant corruption fosters the conditions that threaten the security of our troops and the stability of the Afghan
government and economy."
The State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee will mark up its Fiscal Year 2011 Appropriations Act on
Wednesday June 30th. The subcommittee will not consider any bilateral assistance for the Afghan government other
than lifesaving humanitarian aid at this time.
Lowey also announced the Subcommittee will hold oversight hearings after the July 4th recess to get to the bottom of
these allegations.
"Too many Americans are suffering in this economy for us to put their hard-earned tax dollars into the hands of
criminals overseas," said Lowey. "We will not commit billions more in taxpayer money for Afghanistan until there are
assurances that such funds will be used for their intended purposes and that the government of Afghanistan is willing
and able to root corruption within its ranks. U.S. taxpayers deserve nothing less."
 --- 

Will do.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Frank Ricciardone came to see me several weeks ago to make the case for
AM
 --- 

Cristophe is coming tomorrow at 7:30, not Isabelle. Let me know who you want wednesday cause he's offered to come
then too.
 --- 

Will lock in for tonight.
We spoke to Marianne about coming in on the 8th.
 --- 

Monica -
Huma Abedin <Huma@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, June 29, 2010 6:01 AM
'hanleymr@state.gov'; H
Re:
is already is locked for tonite. I am seeing her right before actually.
 --- 

When salon called, I told them to tell him about it so he might come.
 --- 

I figured.
 --- 

Yes easily.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

I have talked to him, as has Derek, but I need one more convo before you see him.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Madam Secretary,
Following up on your trip to Ecuador, Jake asked me to send you a quick update on the Financial Action Task Force's
(FATF) listing of Ecuador:
(SBU) On June 25 the FATF moved Ecuador down a notch from a list of countries with serious strategic deficiencies in
measures against money laundering and financing terrorism. Ecuador is now on the "Improving AML/CFT Compliance:
On-going Process" list for showing progress in its efforts against money laundering and financing terrorism.
(SBU) According to Treasury, the change in Ecuador's status stems from its commitment to an action plan with the FATF,
and the GOE's demonstrated high-level political commitment to work toward AML/CFT (anti-money laundering —
combating the financing of terrorism) compliance.
WHA is looking into options for next steps.
Please let me know if you would like any further information.
Best,
Mike
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-1709
(cell)
 --- 

Madame Secretary -
Forgive the email but I just wanted to thank you and President Clinton for so graciously opening your home and inviting
me to join in celebrating It was a truly wonderful evening. B6
Safe travels!
,
-Rob
 --- 

Top 2 Civilians Face Rockiness in Afghan Shift By MARK LANDLER The New York Times Thu, July 1, 2010
WASHINGTON — As General David H. Petraeus takes command in Afghanistan, the two top American civilian officials in
the war face an uncertain and tricky future, working with a newly empowered military leader, under the gaze of an
impatient president who has put them on notice that his fractious war council needs to pull together.
Richard C. Holbrooke, the Obama administration's special representative to the region, and Karl W. Eikenberry, the
ambassador to Afghanistan, both hung on to their jobs in the uproar that followed Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal's career-
ending quotes in Rolling Stone magazine.
But privately, at least one senior White House official suggested using General McChrystal's exit as an excuse for a
housecleaning, according to senior officials. That was rejected as too disruptive during a military campaign that relies
heavily on civilian support, these people said.
In recent days, other administration officials have begun floating the idea that Ambassador Eikenberry might be
replaced by
Ryan C. Crocker, the highly regarded former ambassador in Iraq who forged a close partnership with General Petraeus
during the successful Iraq troop increase.
Such a prospect is viewed as remote, given Mr. Crocker's prestigious new post at
Texas A&M University. But the fact that his name is being invoked underlines the challenges that confront Ambassador
Eikenberry, as he adapts to a new partner — one who has strong ideas about how soldiers and diplomats should work
together in war.
It also illustrates the remarkably powerful role that General Petraeus will assume in the nine-year-old war, setting him
up as almost a viceroy in Afghanistan and a key broker in negotiations between President
Hamid Karzai and Pakistan over an eventual political settlement.
Prior to General Petraeus's arrival, some critics said the White House had created a problem by recruiting several
forceful, ambitious personalities and giving them jobs with overlapping responsibilities. Administration officials
acknowledge that, as one said, "There are obviously a number of substantial personalities on the team." But the White
House believes that the current lineup can mesh, and that a difficult war demands this much talent.
Still, the McChrystal blow-up has reverberated through the State Department. Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton instructed Ambassador Eikenberry and Mr. Holbrooke to take a hard look at the civilian team,
two officials said. She is not wedded to the current lineup if it continues to bog down in internecine battles, they said.
"You can't have a major shift in a civ-mil structure without having the civilian side take a step back and look at
everything," said a senior State Department official, using the jargon for a civilian-military campaign.
Be
General Petraeus, whose appointment was approved 99-0 by the Senate on Wednesday, took pains at his confirmation
hearing on Tuesday to back a unified civilian and military effort. He noted then that he had telephoned Mr. Holbrooke
and would rendezvous with Ambassador Eikenberry in Brussels, so the two could land in Kabul together.
"Holbrooke has been my wingman, to a great degree," General Petraeus said in an interview. "We have had, and do
have, a very good relationship." That role, he said, will now fall to Ambassador Eikenberry.
Ambassador Eikenberry was highly critical of the Pentagon's proposal last year to send 60,000 additional troops to
Afghanistan, which led to a difficult relationship with General McChrystal. But in fact General Petraeus was the true
architect of the plan.
The ambassador, a retired lieutenant general and former commander in Afghanistan, graduated from
West Point in 1973, a year ahead of General Petraeus, but they did not know each other at the academy. The two share
a scholarly bent: General Petraeus holds a Ph.D. from Princeton, while Ambassador Eikenberry has Master's degrees
from
Harvard and Stanford.
While they were never assigned together, their careers intersected twice. In Iraq, General Eikenberry led an assessment
of Iraqi security forces while General Petraeus was commanding the 101st Airborne Division in Mosul. When General
Eikenberry was commander in Afghanistan, General Petraeus led an assessment of Afghan National Security Forces.
General Petraeus declined to discuss personnel issues, while Ambassador Eikenberry and Mr. Holbrooke turned down
requests for an interview. Mr. Crocker, now the dean of the George Bush School of Government at Texas A&M, did not
return a call for comment.
For Mr. Holbrooke, the new landscape is challenging in other ways. Officials said his job security was less in doubt than it
was six months ago, when his ouster was the subject of endless Washington chatter. Yet he has arguably become a less
central player:
Jacob J. Lew, a deputy secretary of state, manages much of the civilian influx in Afghanistan that Mr. Holbrooke helped
shape, while the embassy in Kabul is carrying it out. Mr. Holbrooke's current portfolio has played to his weaknesses, his
own allies admit. He is best as a high-level negotiator, and not as comfortable with the nitty-gritty work of helping
Afghanistan build an economy.
These days, Mr. Holbrooke has become a globe-trotting diplomat, trying to retain flagging European allies while seeking
to draw influential Muslim countries like Egypt into helping Afghanistan. At a recent conference of 35 countries in
Madrid, Mr. Holbrooke drummed up more support from allies for the Afghan government's campaign to reintegrate
Taliban fighters into mainstream society.
Mr. Karzai's longer-term effort to reconcile with Taliban leaders, and his negotiations with Pakistan, could propel Mr.
Holbrooke back into a central role. Were these talks to become more serious, several officials said, Mr. Holbrooke's
negotiating skills could be put to use, as a broker and guardian of American interests. For now, though, as evidence of
General Petraeus's influence, he will do most of the shuttling between Kabul and Islamabad.
On his last visit to the region, Mr. Holbrooke met with Mr. Karzai and with senior Pakistani officials, including the army
chief of staff,
Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. Mr. Holbrooke's past run-ins with Mr. Karzai, several officials said, have not hindered his ability to
deal with the Afghan leader, and Pakistani officials said they trusted him.
Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to Washington, said that Mr. Holbrooke took time to understand Pakistan's
concerns. "Ambassador Holbrooke is liked by some, admired by others and seen as effective, even by those who may
not like him," Mr. Haqqani said.
Still, General Petraeus is indisputably the key player, and he has wasted no time asserting his control. On a secure
videoconference call last Saturday, a person familiar with the call said, General Petraeus threw his support behind a
costly, and controversial, plan to install temporary generators to supply more electricity to Kandahar, the Taliban
stronghold that is the next major American military target.
Mr. Holbrooke and Ambassador Eikenberry swiftly assented.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Are you meeting me at shuttle?
 --- 

I've worked on this non-stop since yesterday am. Let's discuss at meeting today.
 --- 

Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, June 1, 2010 6:59 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: Ukraine
 --- 

Are you up? Can I call?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, June 1, 2010 7:00 AM
'pverveer
Re: Ukraine
Very distressing report. If I go to Ukraine in early July, are you going w me? What could I do to address? Let's raise w Phil
Gordon today.
 --- 

Pis add to call list and prepare a letter to Father B.
 --- 


 --- 

Davis w over 60 Percent
Pls add to call list.
 --- 

the world together-"Fourth Turning"...might want to re-read the ending chapters of Neil
Howe and Bill Strauss book-love you so
Pis get me a copy of this book from the library. Thx.
 --- 


 --- 

According to WPost and Pi, US govt warned Israel about handling the flotilla.
 --- 

Pls print 2 copies.
 --- 

Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, June 3, 2010 3:55 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: Brief memo for Cheryl Mills on Colombia - for Secretary Clinton
 --- 

What does Bill Burns think? I'd rather do it later so I can get ready to go.
 --- 


 --- 

u a little more time.
I know the Greek call will last a long time and I can't predict how long Yang will take so this is not a good idea. But if I can
finish the P call by 8:20, then I can do as long as I'm done by 8:45.
 --- 

Pis see the memcon for details.
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 


 --- 

Thx for following up on both.
 --- 

That's gratifying. Now we just have to make the rebuilding work--no easy task.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, June 6, 2010 4:16 PM
'millscd@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.govi; Huma Abedin
Re: Brief memo for Cheryl Mills on Colombia - for Secretary Clinton
B5
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Do you have an opinion about this?
 --- 

Do you have an opinion about this?
 --- 

Pls read and discuss.
 --- 

I tried calling.
 --- 


 --- 

Jones did. Can you call me thru ops?
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, June 12, 2010 9:53 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: Calls tomorrow
I may have to do on blackberry
 --- 

I
Is he at your house this weekend?
 --- 

I'll do
 --- 

Ok. I'll plan for cal tomorrow.
Also, I'd like to talk w you before your mtg w Denis and Ben about future ideas. Can you talk tonight? what times would
be best?
 --- 

Could you talk now?
 --- 

No. Are you free after 9pm?
 --- 

I was just told your number was not in service!? Pls call me at home in DC.
RELEASE IN PART
B6
 --- 

I don't recall hearing about this particular project before. Can you do a quick analysis before I follow up?
 --- 

Pls print for me.
 --- 

Pis print for me.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, June 14, 2010 9:35 PM
'cb
Re: contiaentia!
I would be happy to meet w him. How should I follow up to arrange a mutually agreeable time? All the best to you.
 --- 

Jake Sullivan (DOS) <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
RELEASE IN PART
B6
 --- 

Pis print.
H < hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, June 14, 2010 9:39 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: HRC University. A quick thought
 --- 

Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, June 16, 2010 8:59 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Fw: confidential
 --- 

PIs make 3 copies.
 --- 

I did and thank you. I'll try to call later.
 --- 

What happened?
 --- 

Can you pls call me thru ops?
 --- 

Can you run the traps
 --- 


 --- 

Ok but be sure it's proofread
 --- 

What # should I call?
 --- 

Better than we could have expected so good to go.
 --- 


 --- 

Can you get me copy of article about McChrystal that is coming out?
 --- 

can you talk now?
 --- 

Can you call me thru ops.
 --- 

I'm on the way back.
 --- 

GW is dodging me so ask that letter be drafted that I could send him asap making case.
 --- 

B6
Pls add Jill Iscol and Melanne to call list for
 --- 

leverage
Pls print.
 --- 

Pls do letter of congrats, ty etc.
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

PIs add to call list.
 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B6
 --- 

I'm on the way.
 --- 

Did you reach her?
 --- 

Thx.
 --- 

Is there a backstory?
 --- 

That is exciting news--do you think you can teach me to use it on the flight to Kyev next week?
Original Messa
 --- 

I think I should spend the night of the 19th in Kabul before the conference there.
 --- 

Katie Stanton is leaving to go back to California. Will you ask her to come by to say goodbye to me? Thx.
 --- 

Pls come see me tomorrow about redesigning and updating the format. Thx.
 --- 

Very interesting. Thanks. Speaking of Australia, I was sorry about Kevin Rudd.
Original Messa e
 --- 

PIs add the following:
Paul Charron about Haiti
Mickey and Heidi Kantor
John Kao
Do letter of thanks to
Gen Kean who was commander in Haiti
 --- 

PIs reach out to Dianne Feinstein for a dinner which will be very hard for me in July but if I have to be back for a few days
in early August, might work then. Just so she knows we are trying.
Also, I want to see Jack Keane for a drink.
FM Lieberman wants to see me in July--let's discuss
Also FM Zebari of Iraq will be in US in July. PIs find out when he is coming
Have you heard from Carlos Slim about a date for a mtg?
Don't forget:
the Skoll mtg,
the Arctic Council in Greenland,
Harlan Dalton's visit,
Carol Evans' request for an interview,
the Vital Voices Summit 9/14-17,
the request for a mtg or call w Dellums
the AGOA conf in DC which I was told is 8/3-4
The Putin conf about tigers in Vladivostock 9/11-19
What happened w the Baucus mtg?
Also, I'd like a working lunch w Ron Kirk and a mtg about Latin America w Chris Dodd
Pls schedule Hannah Rosenthal to see me
David Rockefeller Sr has asked to see me. I'd like to do when I'm in NY or if there is a State Dept award we could give him
for his citizen diplomacy esp in Latin America--could you run traps on that idea?
During UNGA, I have to do bilat w Cathy Ashton
 --- 

Pls add his burial ceremony at Arlington on July 14 as option for me. Thx.
 --- 

Yes--call me.
 --- 

B6
Let's do Tues evening. Do you know when I can see Maryann?
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

Could we move to 8:30?
 --- 

Did you and/or PIR talk to him today? Do I need to see him tomorrow?
 --- 

Pls prepare condolence letter to Justice RBG for loss of her husband, Martin.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, June 30, 2010 12:00 PM
'hanleymr@state.gov'
Fw: confidential
Fyi
 --- 

