Verveer, Melanne S <VerveerMS@state.gov>
Friday, December 17, 2010 3:04 PM
New Development
B1
1.4(D)
I have alerted Moriarty and Blake.
Melanne S. Verveer
Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues U.S. Department of State
2201 C Street NW, Room 6805
Washington, DC 20520
Tel: (202) 647-7283
Fax: (202) 647-7288
VerveerMS@state.gov
 --- 


 --- 

Nice
 --- 

Cloture vote failed. 55 to 41. On to don't ask don't tell.
 --- 

They got cloture on DADT. 63 to 33.
At the close of the 30 hours (or when they yield back) we are back on START. We were able to convince Reid this
morning not to file cloture on the treaty, which would have played in to Kyl's hands. So we are likely to have one full
more day of debate and some votes on amendments, then file cloture setting up a cloture vote early next week. Mccain
and Graham are still in a grumpy place - Graham is worse than McCain and we may have lost him. But McCain is still
very much in the game.
 --- 

Yes. Today if u can. And actually I just got a note from McCain's senior person asking you to call McCain now, as he as at
risk of walking too. Will forward that email to you now.
 --- 


 --- 

PVerveer
Saturday, December 18, 2010 1:22 PM
child marriage defeat
The defeat of the Child Marriage bill, I fear, is a harbinger of what's to come. After passing the Senate unanimously, there
was every expectation that it would fly through the House on suspension. How this too became an abortion issue is truly
distressing. We have our work more than cut out for us.
On another note, i ran into Ray and Shaista the other night. They were recently in Pakistan and stayed with Zardari the
whole time. It might make sense for someone to brief Ray. Zardari considers him his informal ambassador to the US.
z..L ;; ;•=r-i e forc,; e
Posted: i7 Dec 2010 03:08 PM PS'
Incoming House Foreign Affairs chairwoman ileana Ros-Lehtinen. (R-FL) defeated a bill Thursday evening that
would have committed the United States to combating forced child marriages abroad, by invoking concerns about
the legislation's cost and that funds could be uses to finance abortions. The episode highlights the tough road that
the °barna administration will face in advancing its women's rights and foreign aid agenda during the next
Congressional session.
Non-governmental organizations, women's rights advocates, and. lawmakers from both parties spent years
developing and lobbying for the "International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act of 2010," which
the House failed to pass in a vote Thursday. The bill failed even though 241 Congressmen voted, for it and only 166
voted against, because House Speaker Nancy Petosi (D-CA) brought it up under "suspension of the rules." This
procedure has the advantage of not allowing any amendments or changes to the bill, but carries the disadvantage of
requiring two-thirds of the. votes for passage.
; Even still, supporters in both parties fully expected the bill to garner the 290 votes needed -- right up until the bill.
failed. After all, it passed the Senate unanimously Dee. i with the co-sponsorship of several Republicans. including
Appropriations Committee ranking Republican Thad Cochran (R-MS), Foreign Relations Committee member
Roger ‘Vick-er (P.-MS), and human rights advocate Sam Brownback (R-KS).
if passed, the bill would have authorized the president to provide assistance "to prevent the incidence of child
marriage in developing countries through the promotion of educational, health, economic, social, and legal
empowerment of girls and women." It would have also mandated that the administration develop a multi-year
strategy on the issue and that the State Department include the incidence of forced child marriage during its annual
evaluation of countries' human rights practices.
So what happened? Ros-Lehtinen first argued that the bill was simply unaffordable. In a Dec. i6"
she objected to the Post of the bill, which would be Si.08 million over five years, and criticized it for not
providing an accounting of how much the U.S. was already spending on this (Alba The '
said the bill would authorize $1o8 million, but would only require $67 million in outlays from fiscal years 2011 to
2015.
Ros-Lehtinen introduced her own version of the bill, which she said would only cost $1 million. But in a fact sheet
gDF.), organizations supporting the original legislation said that Ros-Lehtinen's bill removed the implementation
procedures that gave the legislation teeth. "Without such activities, the bill becomes merely a strategy with no actual
implementation. And without implementation of a strategy, the bill will have an extraordinarily limited impact,"
they wrote.
Regardless, the supporters still thought the bill would pass because House Republican leadership had not come out
against it. But about one hour before the vote, every Republican House office received a message on the bill
from GOP leadership, known as a Whip Alert, saying that leadership Nyould vote "no" on the bill and encouraging all
Republicans do the same. The last line on the alert particularly shocked the supporters.
"There are also concerns that funding will be directed to NGOs that promote and perform abortion and efforts to
combat child marriage could be usurped as a way to overturn pro-life laws," the alert read.
The bill doesn't contain any funding for abortion activities and federal funding for abortion activities is already
; prohibited by what's known as the almene`" which has been boiler plate language in appropriations
bills since 1973.
Invoking the abortion issue sent the bill's supporters reeling. They believed that it was little more than a stunt,
considering that Republican pro-life senators had carefully reviewed the legislation and concluded it would not have
an impact on the abortion issue.
Rep. Stephen LaTourrette (R-OH) - the Republican leadership for invoking the abortion issue to defeat
the forced child marriage act in a floor speech .Friday morning.
"Yesterday I was on the floor and I was a co-sponsor with [on] a piece of legislation with [Rep. Betty McCollum
(D-MN)] that would have moved money, no new money, would have moved money so that societies that are
coercing young girls into marriage... we could make sure that they stay in school so they're not forced into marriage
at the age of 12 and 13," LaTourette said. "Ail of a sudden there was a fiscal argument. When that didn't work people
had to add an abortion element to it. This is a partisan place. I'm a Republican. I'm glad we beat their butt in the
election, but there comes a time when, enough is enough."
But it was too late for LaTourette and other Republicans who had fought hard for the bill, including Aaron Schoch,
(R-11). The bill is even less likely to pass next year, when the GOP will control the House and Ros-Lehtinen will
control the Foreign Affairs committee.
The main author of the bill was Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL), who was incensed when the bill failed
in the House.
-The action on the House floor stopping the Child 'Marriage bill tonight will endanger the lives of millions of women.
and girls around the world," Durbin said in a Thursday statement. "These.voung girls, enslaved in marriage, will be
brutalized and many will die when their young bodies are torn apart while giving birth. Those who voted to continue
this barbaric practice brought shame to Capitol Hill."
For the NGO and women's advocacy community, the implications of this defeat extend much further than just this
bill. They also saw Republicans invoke the abortion issue when objecting to the International Violence Against
Women Act and expect the new Congress to push for reinstatement of the "Mexico City Policy," which would
prevent federal funding for any organizations that even discuss abortion.
"Any time a health bill that has to do with women and girls comes to the House floor, we're going to see a debate
like the one we just saw," said one advocacy leader who supported the bill. "It's hard to imagine how any
development bills are going to pass in this environment."
The protection of women and girls is a major focus of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who promised to elevate
the issue Thursday when rolling out the State Department's Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review. She
has said that forced child marriage is "a clear and unacceptable violation of human rights", and that "the
Department of State categorically denounces all cases of child marriage as child abuse".
State's Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues Melanne Verveer has worked hard on the issue behind
the scenes. But at the eleventh hour, when the going got tough, the bill's supporters said that the administration was
nowhere to be found. In October, the White House decided to waive all penalties under the Child Soldiers
Prevention Act, another Durbin led bill that the NCO community supports.
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) estimates that 6o million girls in developing countries now between the
ages of 20 and 24 were married before they reached 18. The Population Council,
reproductive and child health, estimates that the number will increase by too million over the next decade if current
trends continue.
!
One of the two biggest problems identified in the Afghanistan-Pakistan Strategy Review released Thursday (?• :) is
the Pakistani militasy's failure to crack down on some of the terrorist groups using Pakistan's tribal areas as a safe
- haven from which to launch attacks across the border into Afghanistan.
Pakistan • a major offensive, involving approximately go,000 troops, against extremists in South
Waziristan in October 2009, and its military has also undertaken efforts to stamp out militants in other border
areas. However, the military has yet to launch offensive military operations in North Waziristan, where insurgent
groups wreaking havoc in Afghanistan reside.
Pakistan's envoy in Washington, Ambassador Husain Haggai* reacted to the report by saying that Pakistan will
engage isla.mist groups in North Waziristan, including the •Hartgani network (no relation), but only when there is
sufficient support in all areas of Pakistan's government for the effort, and not until they are confident that the
mission can be completed effectively.
"Pakistan has made it very clear that we are fighting terrorists because they are a threat to our own existence as a
modern democratic nation. We will fight all groups in all parts of our country," Haqqani said in an exclusive
interview with The Cable. "But we will follow timelines that suit our own capabilities and can lead to success."
Haqqani said that the Pakistani army, which has taken the fight to six out of the seven regions inside Pakistan in
which domestic militant groups operate and suffered thousands of casualties in the process, is simply not in a
position to expand its war on the extremists now.
"Right now, it's only a question of operational capability and readiness. Our armed forces have been engaged in
dealing with flood relief work," he said. "We have to see what resources we will allocate in which part of the country,
and those rather than any political factors are responsible for any waiting period."
He also noted that "there is a fragile consensus in Pakistan in favor of military action against regional elements,"
and that Pakistan's government has no choice but to make the decision to attack North Waziristan groups on a
timeline that prioritized Pakistani considerations over American ones.
"Sometimes it's easy for our allies to tell us what to do and for us to tell our allies what to do. But everyone makes
decisions based on their own perceptions and analysis of on ground realities," Haqqani said.
In several discussions with other Pakistani officials, an even more complicated picture of the Pakistani position on
attacking groups in North Waziristan emerges. The Pakistanis largely believe that the U.S. government is being
unrealistic in terms of the timelines it wants for cracking down on terrorist safe havens along the Afghanistan-
Pakistan border, which have existed for decades.
, "There will always be a gap between our two countries because the Americans want things done quickly and done
their way," another Pakistani government official said.
; A third senior Pakistani official said that many Pakistanis feel that the ()barna administration is placing too much of
the blame on Pakistan for the lank of progress in the 'U.S.-led war in Afghanistan.
'The U.S. keeps telling Pakistan to do more, but Pakistan keeps telling the U.S. to do more on certain questions such
as speeding up building up of Afghan army, establishing a real process toward reconciliation, and providing
Pakistan the means for large scale operations," the official said.
The United States has provided Pakistan with several billions of dollars in military and economic aid to support its
war against domestic insurgents. But many in the Pakistani government have criticized what they say characterize
as the slow arrival of these funds, which they say are in any case too small to address Pakistan's severe problems.
"It's very simplistic to measure success in amount of assistance provided to Pakistan," one Pakistani official said.
In remarks delivered during the rollout of the strateu review Thursday, President Obama was diplomatic when
discussing his administration's ongoing drive to push Pakistan to do more in North Waziristan.
"Increasingly, the Pakistani government recognizes that terrorist networks in its border regions are a threat to all
our countries, especially Pakistan. We've welcomed major Pakistani offensives in the tribal regions. We will
continue to help strengthen Pakistanis' capacity to root out terrorists," said Obama. "Nevertheless, progress has not
come fast enough. So we will continue to insist to Pakistani leaders that terrorist safe havens within their borders
must be dealt with."
Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Michele Flournoy acknowledged in an interview the same day that there
was more work to be done on the relationship before the Pakistanis were willing to fully support the U.S. and
NATO-led mission in Afghanistan.
"Given the ups and downs of our historical relationship with Pakistan, they fear our abandonment," she said. "Their
calculus is very much affected by the long-term commitment they feel from us and in working in a strategic
partnership."
The White House recognizes that its efforts have fallen short so far. "The bottom line is that Pakistan is a country
where we have little influence, little access and little credibility," one of Obama's aides to¦..-:), The New York Times.
The administration's official line, therefore, is to agree with the Pakistani government and express sensitivity to its
claim that they simply can't expand their war against extremists at this time.
"We would like them to move tomorrow, we would like them to take out these people tomorrow," the new U.S.
Ambassador to Pakistan Cameron Munter. "But we understand they're telling us honestly about the capacity of
their military, and when they are able, we are convinced they will move in."
But for many in Washington, the open-ended delay in Pakistan.s promise to expand military operations into North.
Waziristan represents a strategic choice, and is not just a result of the military's operational limitations. But
whatever Pakistan's reasons, the delay doesn't inspire confidence that the Obama administration can meet its
timelines for making progress in Afghanistan.
"Pakistan, meanwhile, iS hedging its bets, supporting proxy actors like the Quetta Shura Taliban and Haos
iani
Network that might counter Indian interests in Kabul after the United States and its allies eventually withdraw,"
Andrew Extnn of the Center for a New American Security. 'The insurgent sanctuaries in Pakistan are one of
the two Achilles heels in the NATO strategy."
‘0 tt
"
Posted: 17 Dec iOO C 4:42 AM PST
In a rare instance of bipartisanship, the House of Representatives moved to pass a resolution Friday honoring the
life and work of the recently departed Ambassador Richard Holbrooke.
The resolution C, was sponsored by outgoing House Appropriations State and Foreign Ops
Subcommittee chairwoman Nita Lowey (D-NY), and cosponsored by incoming House Foreign Affairs chairwoman
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Howard Berman (D-CA), and Mike Turner (R-OH). The bill is "a concurrent
resolution honoring the exceptional achievements of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke and recognizing the
significant contributions he has made to United States national security, humanitarian causes and peaceful
resolutions of international conflict."
"The passing of Ambassador Holbrooke on Monday, December 13th, is a great loss for the American people," Lowey
said in a statement. "One of our nation's most talented diplomats, Richard Holbrooke possessed a fierce
determination and unsurpassed brilliance in advocating for American security, diplomatic, and development
interests around the world - in Southeast Asia and post-Cold War Europe, at the United Nations, and most recently
in Afghanistan and Pakistan. His exceptional accomplishments as a peace-maker, diplomat, writer, scholar,
manager and mentor will define his legacy as one of the true great foreign policy giants of our time."
Ros-Lehtinen praised Holbrooke as "one of the most consequential world diplomats of the last half-century," and
said that "his tireless work in pursuit of United States national interests and international peace have put us all in
his debt."
After praising his career -- which included two stints as assistant secretary of state, peace negotiator in the Balkans,
U.S. ambassador to the U.N., and service as U.S. special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan -- Ros-
Lehtinen called for reform of the United Nations and protection of Israel within its bodies.
"In New York at the UN, [Holbrooke] did much of the heavy lifting on Congressionally-led efforts to rein in UN
spending, to make more equitable the dues paid by the United States, and to improve the standing of Israel in that
multinational body," she said. "Sadly, those concerns have returned with a renewed urgency -- with the need for
fundamental reform of UN budget and the virulently anti-Israel UN Human Rights Council -- and the Congress can
only hope to have such a tenacious, principled partner in the future."
You are subscribed to email updates from Email delivery Dowered by Google
To stop receiving these emaIls, you may .r...hs¦-
.
;
Inc. 20 West Kinzie, Chicago IL USA 60610
 --- 

PVerveer(
Saturday, December 18, 2010 1:29 PM
Re: child marriage defeat
I will do so. I just heard from Kristof. He said that sometimes Republican are just plain nuts. I have to really figure out a
strategy on this, GHI, etc
Also, Kristof said he was so pleased to see your influence on these issues in the QDDR.
In a message dated 12/18/2010 1:24:49 P.M. Eastern Standard Time, HDR22@clintonemail.com writes:
 --- 

1. Churkin called Susan back.
B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
2. Feltman just called.
B5
12/17/2025
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Importance: High
Fyi
 --- 

My best time is
you want to do in person
so 6pm on; at 8 so am free also from then on and can come over if
Cdm
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Is apparently in a good place. I don't think you need to speak with him.
Reid, with Lugar's support, will file cloture on the treaty tonight setting up a tuesday cloture vote.
Senate will go into closed session monday at 2 to discuss verification. Bond and Kyl will lead the charge. Kerry and
Feinstein are prepared to push back. Clapper will be here in the capitol if needed.
 --- 


 --- 

Madeleine Albright
Sunday, December 19, 2010 8:17 PM
Re: Where can I reach you?
I will be home at about 8:45. Would love to talk leave for aspen tomorrow.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Monday, December 20, 2010 2:40 PM
Latest: Max Blumenthal, The Great Fear: Inside the Bizarre Cabal
B6
Torngram: Max
Blumenthal, The Great
Fear
By Max Blumenthal
Posted on December 19, 2010, Printed on
December 20, 2010
http://www.tomdispatch.com/blog/175334/
Moments of imperial and economic decline
-- according to a recent poll, 65% of
Americans now believe this country to be
"in a state of decline" -- can also be periods
of cultishness, even of madness
incarnate. Such a mood now seems to be
spreading through the United States. It's
not so surprising, really: Since the attacks
of September 11, 2001, fear has
been iniiecttcl into this "homeland" like a
drug and a penumbia of official secrecy has
settled over the land in a way that makes
the secrecy of the Cold War years (when
this country faced a superpower, not a
ragtag set offihadis, guerrillas, and
terrorists) seem like an era of sunshine.
In an atmosphere of swirling fears and
hysteria amid declining living conditions,
"explanations" that at other times might
have remained confined to tiny crews of
conspiracy-mongers can suddenly gain a
patina of plausibility and so traction. No
wonder then that, as hard times hit, as the
financial system seemed on the verge of
collapse, as unemployment soared and a
massive wave of home foreclosures swept
into view, increasing numbers of
Americans became prey to any wacky
explanation for our troubles, none more so
than the idea that Islam was somehow
responsible, that mosques and Islamic
centers meant for a sliver of a minority here
were capable of imposing anything, no less
a way of life on this country, or that Sharia
law (of all things) might somehow worm
its way into state teal systems, or that
YouTube was a hotbed of.terrorism worthy
of suppression, or... well, you name it.
Max Blumenthal, author of the bestselling
book Reptblican Gomorrah: Inside the
Movement Thai Shattered the Party, has
done the necessary legwork to"take us deep
into one of those crews of conspiracy-
mongers who, at another time, just about
no one would have paid much attention to,
but in twenty-first-century America have
gained a remarkable audience. They are a
chilling barometer of the changing weather
in America. Torn
The Great
Islamophobic
Crusade
Inside the Bizarre
Cabal of Secretive
Donors, Demagogic
Bloggers, Pseudo-
Scholars, European
Neo-Fascists, Violent
Israeli Settlers, and
Republican Presidential
Hopefuls Behind the
Crusade
By Max Blumenthal
Nine years after 9/11,
hysteria about Muslims in
American life has gripped
the country. With it has
Gone an outburst of arson
attacks on mosques,
campaigns to stop their
construction, and the
branding of the Muslim-
American community,
overwhelmingly moderate,
as a hotbed of potential
terrorist recruits. The frenzy
has raged from rural
Tennessee to New York
City, while in Oklahoma,
voters even overwhelmingly
Approved a ballot measure
banning the implementation
of Sharia law in American
courts (not that such a
prospect existed). This
campaign of islamophobia
wounded President Oba.ma
politically, as one out of five
Americans have bought
into a sustained chorus of
false rumors about his secret
Muslim faith. And it may
have tainted views of
Muslims in general; an
August 2010 Pew Research
Center poll revealed that,
among Americans, the
favorability rating of
Muslims had dropped by 11
points since 2005.
Erupting so many years after
the September 11th trauma,
this spasm of anti-Muslim
bigotry might seem oddly
timed and unexpectedly
spontaneous. But think
again: it's the fruit of an
organized, long-term
campaign by a tight
confederation of right-Wing
activists and operatives who
first focused on
Isia.mophobia soon after the
September 11th attacks, but
only attained critical mass
during the Obama era. It
was then that embittered
conservative forces, voted
out of power in 2008, sought
with remarkable success to
leverage cultural resentment
into political and partisan
gain.
This network is obsessively
fixated on the supposed
spread of Muslim influence
in America. Its apparatus
spans continents, extending
from Tea Party activists here
to the European far right. It
brings together in common
cause right-wing ultra-
Zionists, Christian
evangelicals, and racist
British soccer hooligans. It
reflects an aggressively pro-
Israel sensibility, with its
key figures venerating the
Jewish state as a Middle
Eastern Fort Apache on the
front lines of the Global
War on Terror and urging
the U.S. and various
European powers to emulate
its heavy-handed methods.
Little of recent American
Jslamophobia (with a.strong
emphasis on the "phobia") is
sheer happenstance. Years
before Tea Party shock
troops massed for angry
protests outside the
proposed site of an Islamic
community center in lower
Manhattan, representatives
of the Israel lobby and the
Jewish-American
establishment launched a
campaign against pro-
Palestinian campus activism
that would prove a seedbed
for everything to come. That
campaign quickly -- and
perhaps predictably --
morphed into a series of
crusades against mosques
and islarilic schools which,
in turn, attracted an
assortment of shady but
exceptionally energetic
militants into the network's
ranks.
Besides providing the initial
energy for the islamophobic
crusade, conservative
elements from within the
pro-Israel lobby bankrolled
the network's apparatus,
enabling it to influence the
national debate. One
philanthropist in particular
has provided the
beneficence to propel the
campaign ahead. He is a
little-known Los Angeles-
area software security
entrepreneur named Aubrey
Chernick, who operates out
of a security consulting firm
blandly named the National
Center for Crisis and
Continuity Coordination. A
former trustee of the
Washington Institute for
Near East Policy, which has
served as a think tank for the
American Israeli Public
Affairs Committee
(AIPAC), a frontline
lobbying group for Israel,
Chernick is said to be worth
$750 million.
Chemick's fortune is puny
compared to that of the
billionaire Koch Brothers,
extraction industry titans
who fund Tea Party-related
groups like Americans for
Prosperity, and it is dwarfed
by the financial empire of
Haim Saban, the Israeli-
American media baron who
is one of the largest.-orivate
donors to the Democratic
party and recently matched
$9 million raised for the
Friends of the Israeli
Defense Forces in a single
night. However, by injecting
his money into a small but
influential constellation of
groups and individuals with
a narrow agenda. Chernick
has had a considerable
impact.
Through the Fairtmook
Foundation, a private entity
he and his wife Joyce
control, Chernick has
provided funding to groups
ranging from the Anti-
Defamation League (ADL)
and CAMERA, a right-
wing, pro-Israel, media-
watchdog outfit, to violent
Israeli settlers living on
Palestinian lands and figures
like the pseudo-academic
author Robert Spencer, who
is largely responsible for
popularizing conspiracy
theories about the coming
conquest of the West by
Muslim fanatics seeking to
establish a worldwide
caliphate. Together, these
groups spread hysteria about
Muslims into Middle
American communities
where immigrants from the
Middle East have recently
settled, and they watched
with glee as likely
Republican presidential
frontrunners from Mike
Huckabee to Sarah Palin
pmmoted their cause and
oarpe.ki their tropes.
Perhaps the only thing more
surprising than the
increasingly widespread
appeal of islamophobia is
that, just a few years ago,
the phenomenon was
confined to a few college
campuses and an inner city
neighborhood, and that it
seemed like a fleeting fad
that would soon pass from
the American political
landscape.
Birth of a Network
The fslamophobic crusade
was launched in earnest at
the peak of George W.
Bush's prestige when the
neoconservatives and their
allies were riding high. In
2003, three years after the
collapse of President Bill
Clinton's attempt to resolve
the Israeli-Palestinian issue
and in the immediate wake
of the invasion of Iraq, a
network of Jewish groups,
ranging from ADL and the.
American Jewish
Committee to AIPAC,
gathered to address what
they saw as a sudden rise in
pro-Palestinian activism on
college campuses
nationwide. That meeting
gave birth to the David
Project, a campus advocacy
group led by Charles Peters,
who had co-founded
CAMERA, one of the many
outfits bankrolled by
Chernick. With the help of
public relations
professionals,. Peters
ci a plan to "take
back the campus by
influencing public opinion
through lectures. the
Internet, and coalitions," as
a memo produced at the
time by the consulting firm
McKinsey and Company
stated.
In 2004, after conferring
with Martin Kramer, a
fellow at the Washington
Institute for Near East
Policy, the pro-Israel think
tank Where Chernoff had
served as a trustee, Peters
produced a documentary
film that he called Columbia
"rbecornint., It was -filled
with claims from Jewish
students at Columbia
University claiming they
had endured intimidation
and insults from Arab
professors. The film
portrayed that New York
City school's Department of
Middle East and Asian
Languages and Cultures as a
hothouse of anti-Semitism.
In their complaints, the
students focused on one
figure in particular: Joseph
.vlassa.d, a Palestinian
professor of Middle East
studies. He was known for
his passionate advocacy of
the formation of a binational
state between Israel and
Palestine, as well as for his
strident criticism of what he
termed "the racist character
of Israel." The film
identified him as "one of the
most dangerous intellectuals
on campus," while he was
featured as a crucial villain
in The Professors: The 101
Most Dangerous Academics
in America, a book by the
(Chemick-•funded)
neoconservative activist
David Horowitz. As
Massad was seeking tenure
at the time, he was
especially vulnerable to this
sort of wholesale assault.
When the controversy over
Massad's views intensified,
Congressman Anthony
Weiner, a liberal New York
Democrat who pqee
:lescri himself as a
representative of "the ZOA
[Zionist Organization of
America] wing of the
Democratic Party,"
demanded that Columbia
President Lee Bollinger,
a
renowned First Amendment
scholar, fire the professor.
Bollinger responded by
issuing uncharacteristically
defensive statements about
the "limited" nature of
academic freedom.
In the end, however, none of
the charges stuck. Indeed,
the testimonies in the David
Project film were eventually
either discredited or never
corroborated. In 2009,
Massad earned tenure after
winning Columbia's
prestigious Lionel Trilling
Award for excellence in
scholarship.
Having demonstrated its
ability to intimidate faculty
members and even powerful
university administrators,
however, Kramer claimed a
moral victory in the name of
his project, boasting to the
press that "this is a turning
point." While the David
Project subsequently
fostered chapters on
campuses nationwide, its
director set out on a
different path -- initially,
into the streets of Boston in
2004 to oppose the
construction of the Islamic
Society of Boston Cultural
Center.
For nearly 15 years, the
Islamic Society of Boston
had sought to build the
center in the heart of
Roxbury, the city's largest
black neighborhood, to
serve its sizable Muslim
population. With
endorsements from Mayor
Thomas Menino and leading
Massachusetts lawmakers,
the mosque's construction
seemed like a fait accompli -
- until, that is, the Rupert
Murdoch-owned Boston
Herald and his local Fox
News affiliate snapped into
action. Boston Globe
columnist Jeff Jacoby also
chimed in with a series of
reports claiming the center's
plans were evidence of a
Saudi Arabian plot to bolster
the influence of radical
Islam in the United States,
and possibly even to train
underground terror cells.
It was at this point that the
David Project entered the
fray, convening elements of
the local pro-Israel
community in the Boston
area to seek strategies to
torpedo the project.
According to emqiis
obtained by the Islamic
Society's lawyers in a
lawsuit against the David
Project, the organizers
settled on a campaign of
years of nuisance lawsuits,
along with accusations that
the center had received
foreign finding from "the
Wahhabi movement in
Saudi Arabia or... the
Moslem Brotherhood."
In response, a grassroots
coalition of liberal Jews
initiat4d inter-faith efforts
aimed at ending a
controversy that had
essentially been
manufactured out of thin air
and was corroding relations
between the Jewish and
Muslim communities in the
city. Peters would not,
however, relent. 'We are
more concerned now than
we have ever been about a
Saudi influence of local
mosques," he ,apounced at
a suburban Boston
synagogue in 2007.
After paying out millions of
dollars in legal bills and
enduring countless smears,
the Islamic Society of
Boston completed the
construction of its
community center in 2008.
Meanwhile, not surprisingly,
nothing came of the David
Project's dark warnings. As
Boston-area National Public
Radio reporter Philip Martin
reflected in September 2010,
"The horror stories that
preceded [the center's]
development seem shrill and
histrionic in retrospect."
The Network Expands
This second failed campaign
was, in the end, more about
movement building than
success, no less national
security. The local crusade
established an effective
blueprint for generating
hysteria against the
establishment of Islamic
centers and mosques across
the country, while
galvanizing a cast of
characters who would form
an anti-Muslim network
which would gain attention
and success in the years to
come.
In 2007, these figures
coalesced into a proto-
movement that launched a
new crusade, this time
targeting. the Khalil Gibran
International Academy, a
secular Arabic-English
elementary school in
Brooklyn, New York.
Calling their ad hoc pressure
group, Stop the Madrassah
madrassah being simply
the Arab word for "school" -
- the coalition's activists
included an array of
previously unknown zealots
who made no attempt to
disguise their extreme views
when it came to Islam as a
religion, as well as Muslims
in America. Their stated
goal was to challenge the
school's establishment on
the basis of its violation of
the church-state separation
in the U.S.
Constitution. The true aim
of the coalition, however,
was transparent: to pressure
the city's leadership to adopt
an antagonistic posture
towards the local Muslim
community.
The activists zeroed in on
the school's principal,
Debbie Almontaser, a
veteran educator of Yemeni
descent, and baselessly
.branded her "a jihadist" as
well as a 9/11 denier. They
also accused her of-- as
Pamela Geller, a far-right
blogger just then gaining
prominence put it,
"whitewash[ing] the
genocide against the
Jews." Daniel Pipes, a
neoconservative academic
previously active in the
campaigns against Joseph
Massad and the Boston
Islamic center (and whose
pro-Likud think tank,
Middle East .Forum, has
received $150,000 from
Chernick) Jamed the
school should not go ahead
because "Arabic-language
instruction is inevitably
laden with Pan-Arabist and
Islamist baggage." As the
campaign reached a fever
pitch, Almontaser reported
that members of the
coalition were actually
stallsinQ her wherever she
went.
Given what Columbia
Journalism School professor
and former New York Times
reporter Samuel Freedman
called "her clear, public
record of interfaith activism
and outreach," including
work with the New York
Police Department and the
Anti-Defamation League
after the September 11th
attacks, the assault on
.Almontaser seemed little
short of bizarre -- until her
assailants discovered a
photograph of a T-shirt
produced by AWAAM, a
local Arab feminist
organization, that read
"Intifada NYC." As it
turned out, AWAAM
sometimes shared office
space with a Yemeni-
American association on
which Almontaser served as
a board member. Though
the connection seemed like a
stretch, it promoted the line
of attack the Stop the
Madrassah coalition had
been seeking.
Having found a way to
wedge the emotional issue
of the Israel-Palestine
conflict into a. previously
New York-centered
campaign, the school's
opponents next gained a
platform at the Murdoch-
owned New York Post,
where reporters Chuck
Bennett and Jana Winter
claimed her T-shirt was
"apparently a call for a
Gaza-style uprising in the
Big Apple." While
Almontaser attempted to
explain to the Post's
reporters that she rejected
terrorism„ the Anti-
Defamation League chimed.
in on cue. ADL spokesman
Oren Segal told the Post:
"The T-shirt is a reflection
of a movement that
increasingly lauds violence
against Israelis instead of
rejecting it. That is
disturbing."
Before any Qassam rockets
could be launched from
Almontaser's school, her
former ally New York
Mayor Michael Bloomberg
caved to the growing
pressure and threatened to
shut down the school,
prompting her to resign. A
Jewish principal who spoke
no Arabic replaced
Almontaser, who later filed
a lawsuit against the city for
breaching her free speech
rights. In 2010, the Equal
Employment Opportunity
Commission ui that New
York's Department of
Education had "succumbed
to the very bias that the
creation of the school was
intended to dispel" by firing
Almontaser and urged it pay
her $300,000 in damages.
The commission also
concluded that the Post had
quoted her misleadingly.
Though it failed to stop the
establishment of the Khalil
Gibran Academy,•the
burg:eoning anti-M sliin
movement succeeded in
forcing city leaders to bend
to its will, and having
learned just how to do that,
then moved on in search of
more high-profile targets.
As the ,New York Times
s!..t_..at the time, "The
fight against the school...
was only an early skirmish
in a broader, national
struggle."
s a battle that has really
just begun." Pipes told the
Times.
From Scam to Publicity
Coup
Pipes couldn't have been
more on the mark. In late
2009, the Isiamophobes
sprang into action again
when the Cordoba Initiative,
a non-profit Muslim group
headed by Feisai Abdul
Rauf, an exceedingly
moderate Sufi Muslim imam
who regularly
lepic,,etiting the
United States at the behest
of the State Department,
announced that it was going
to build a community center
in downtown New "NCork
City. With the help of
investors, Raufs Cordoba
Initiative purchased space
two blocks from Ground
Zero in Manhattan. The
space was to contain a
prayer area as part of a large
community center that
would be open to everyone
in the neighborhood.
None of these facts mattered
to Pamela Geller. Thanks to
constant prodding at her
Nog, Atlas Shrugged. Geller
made Cordoba's
construction plans a national
issue, provokino fervent
calls faml conservatives to
protect the "hallowed
ground" of 9/11 from
creeping Sharia. (That the
"mosque" would have been
out of sight of Ground Zero
and that the neighborhood
was, in fact.
everything from strip clubs
to fast-food joints didn't
matter.) Geller's activism
against Cordoba House
earned the 52-year-old full-
time blogger the attention
she apparently craved.,
including a • 1 in
the Neu, York ThIleS and
frequent cable news spots,
esoeciallv, of course, on Fox
News.
Mainstream reporters tended
to focus on Geller's bizarre
stunts. She posted a video
of herself
in a string bikini on a Fort
Lauderdale beach, for
instance, while ranting about
"left-tards" and "Nazi
Hezbollah." Her gall for
boycotting Campbell's Soup
because the company
offered halal -- approved
under Islamic law (as kosher
food is under Jewish law) --
versions of its products got
her much attention, as did
her .cron-lotior of a screed
claiming that President
Barack Obama was the
illegitimate lovechild of
Malcolm X.
Geller had never earned a
living as a journalist. She
supported herself with
millions of dollars in a
divorce settlement and life
insurance money from her
ex-husband. He died in
2008, a year after being
for an alleged $1.3
million scam he was
accused of-running out of a
car dealership he co-owned
with Geller. Independently
wealthy and with time on
her hands, Geller proved
able indeed when it came to
exploiting her strange media
stardom to in.cite the already
organized political network
of islamophobes to intensify
their crusade.
She also benefited from
close alliances with leading
islamophobes from Europe.
Among Ocher's allies was
Andrew Gravers, a Danish
activist who formed the
group Stop the
Islamicization of Europe,
and :.1a.-ye it the unusually
blunt motto: "Racism is the
lowest form of human
stupidity, but Islamophobia
is the height of common
sense." Gravers' group
inspired Geller's own U.S.-
based outfit, Stop the
Islamicization of America,
which she formed with her
friend Robert Spencer, a
pseudo-scholar whose
bestselling books, including
The Truth About
Muhammad, Founder of the
World's Most Intolerant
Religion, prompted former
advisor to President Richard
Nixon and Muslim activist
Robert Crane to ca/1
"the principal leader... in
the new academic .field of
Muslim bashing."
(According to the website
almost $1 million
in donations from Chernick
has been steered to
Spencer's Jihad Watch
group through David
Horowitz's Freedom
Center.)
Perfect sources for
Republican political figures
in search of the next hot-
button cause, their rhetoric
found its way into the
talking points of Newt
Gingrich and Sarah Patin as
they propelled the crusade
against Cordoba House into
the national spotlight.
Gingrich soon pared the
community center to a Nazi
sign next to the Holocaust
Memorial Museum, while
Patin called it "a stab in the
heart" of "the Heartland."
Meanwhile, Tea Party
candidates like Republican
Ilario Pantano, an Iraq war
veteran who killed two
unarmed Iraqi civilians,
shooting them 60 times -- he
even stopped to reload
made their opppsition to
Cordoba House the
centerpiece of midterm
congressional campaigns
conducted hundreds of miles
from Ground Zero.
Geller's campaign against
"the mosque at Ground
Zero" gained an unexpected
assist and a veneer of
legitimacy from established
Jewish leaders like Anti-
Defamation League
National Director Abraham
Foxman. "Survivors of the
Holocaust are entitled to
feelings that are irrational,"
he et.:narked to the New
York Times. Comparing the
bereaved family members of
9-1 1 victims to Holocaust
survivors, Foxman insisted,
"Their anguish entitles them
to positions that others
would categorize as
irrational or bigoted."
Soon enough, David Harris,
director of the (Chernick-
funded) American Jewish
Committee, was demanding
that Cordoba's leaders be
compelled to reveal their
"true attitudes" about
Palestinian militant groups
before construction on the
center was initiated. Rabbi
Marvin Hier of the Simon
Wiesenthal Center of Los
Angeles, another major
Jewish group, insisted it
would be "insensitive" for
Cordoba to build near "a
cemetery," though his
organization had recently
been granted permission
from the municipality of
Jerusalem to build a
"museum of tolerance" to be
called The Center for
Human Dignity directly on
top of the Mamilla
Cemetery, a Muslim
Graveyard that contained
thousands of grave sites
dating back 1,200 years.
Inspiration from Israel
It was evident from the
involvement of figures like
Gravers that the
Islamophobic network in the
United States represented a
trans-Atlantic expansion of
simmering resentment in
Europe. There, the far-right
was storming to victories in
parliamentary elections
across the continent in part
by appealing to the
simmering anti-Muslim
sentiments of voters in rural
and working-class
communities. The extent of
the collaboration between
European and American
Islamophobes has only
continued to grow with
Geller, Spencer, and even
Gingrich standing beside
Europe's most prominent
anti-Muslim figure, Dutch
pad iamentarian Geed
Wilders, at a rally against
Cordoba House. In the
meantime. Geller was
issuing statements of
sunport for the Emdish
Defense League, a band of
uoorlstruc[ed riec)-Nazis
and former members of the
whites-only British National
Party who intimidate
Muslims in the streets of
cities like Birmingham and
London.
In addition, the trans-
Atlantic Islamophobic
crusade has stretched into
Israel, a country that has
come to symbolize the
network's fight against the
Muslim menace. As Geller
told the New York Times'
Alan Feuer, Israel is "a very
good guide because, like I
said, in the war between the
civilized man and the
savage, you side with the
civilized man."
EDL members regularly
wave Israeli flags at their
rallies, while Wilders claims
to have formed his views
about Muslims during the
time he worked on an Israeli
cooperative farm in the
1980s. He has, he says,
visited the country more
than 40 times since to meet
with rightist political allies
like Aryeh Eldad, a member
of the Israeli Knesset and
leader of the far right
Hatikvah faction of the
National Union Party. He
has called for forcibly
"transferring" the
Palestinians living in Israel
and the occupied West Bank
to Jordan and Egypt. On
December 5th, for example,
Wilders traveled to Israel for
a 'ffrjend nieei,imr, with
Foreign Minister Avi2clor
Lieberman, then declared at
a press conference that
Israel should annex the West
Bank and set up a
Palestinian state in Jordan.
In the apocalyptic clash of
civilizations the global anti-
Muslim network has sought
to incite, tiny armed Jewish
settlements like Yitzar,
located on the hills above
the occupied Palestinian city
of Nablus, represent front-
line fortresses. Inside
Yitzar's state-funded
yeshiva, a rabbi named
Yitzhak Shapira has
instructed students in what
rules must be applied when
considering killing non-
Jews. Shapira summarized
his opinions in a widely
publicized book. Torat
HaMelech, or The King's
Torah. Claiming that non-
Jews are "uncompassionate
by nature," Shapira cited
rabbinical texts to declare
that gentiles could be killed
in order to "curb their evil
inclinations." "There is
justification," the rabbi
proclaimed, "for killing
babies if it is clear that they
will grow up to harm us, and,
in such a situation they' may
be harmed deliberately, and
not only during combat with
adults."
In 2006, the rabbi was
briefly held by Israeli police
for urging his supporters to
murder all Palestinians over
the age of 13. Two years
later, according to the Israeli
newspaper Ilaaretz, he
a rabbinical letter in
support of Israeli Jews who
had brutally assaulted two
Arab youths on the country's
Holocaust Remembrance
Day. That same year,
Shapira was arrested as a
suspect in helping
a rocket attack
against a Palestinian village
near Nablus.
Though he was not charged,
his name came up again in
connection with another act
of terror when, in January
2010, the Israeli police
raided his settlement
seeking vandals who had set
fire to a nearby mosque.
One of Shapira's followers,
an American immigrant,
Jack _Mite", has confessed to
murdering two innocent
Palestinians and attempting
to the kill the liberal Israeli
historian Ze'ev Sternhell
with a mail bomb.
What does all this have to
do with Islamophobic
campaigns in the United
States? A great deal,
actually. Through New
York-based tax-exempt non-
profits like the Central Fund
of Israel and Ateret
Cohenim, for instance, the
omnipresent Aubrey
Chernick has sent tens of
thousands of dollars to
support the Yitzar
settlement, as well as to the
messianic settlers dedicated
to "Judaizing" East
Jerusalem. The settlement
movement's leading online
news magazine. Arutz
Sheva, has feattired Geller
as a columnist. A friend of
Geller's, Beth Gili.nsky, a
right-wing activist with a
group called the Coalition to
Honor Ground Zero and the
founder of the Jewish
Action Alliance (apparently
ttun. out of a Manhattan real
estate office), organized a
large rally in New York City
in April 2010 to protest the
Obama administration's call
for a settlement freeze.
Among Chemick's major
funding recipients is a
supposedly "apolitical"
group called Aish. Hatorah
that claims to educate Jews
about their heritage. Based
in New York and active in
the fever swamps of
northern West Bank
settlements near Yitzar,
Aish Hatorah shares an
address and staff with a
shadowy foreign non-profit
called the Clarion Fund.
During the 2008 U.S.
election campaign, the
Clarion Fund distributed 28
million DVDs of a
propaganda film called
Obsession as newspaper
inserts to residents of swing
states around the country.
The film featured a who's
who of anti-Muslim
activists, including \Valid
Shoebat, a self-proclaimed
"former PLO terrorist."
Among Shoebat's more
striking statements: "A
secular dogma like Nazism
is less dangerous than is
Islamofascism today." At a
Christian gathering in 2007,
this "former Islamic
terrorist" told the crowd that
Islam was a "satanic cult"
and that he had been born
again as an evangelical
Christian. In 2008, however,
the Jerusalem Post, a right-
leaning newspaper, exposed
h rn as a fraud, whose
claims to terrorism were
fictional.
Islamophobic groups
registered only a minimal
impact during the 2008
election campaign. Two
years later, however, after
the Republicans regained
control of the House of
Representatives in midterm
elections, the network
appears to have reached.
critical mass. Of course, the
deciding factor in the
election was the economy,
and in two years, Americans
will likely vote their
pocketbooks again. But that
the construction of a single
Islamic community center or
the imaginary threat of
Sharia law were issues at all
reflected the influence of a
small band of locally
oriented activists, and
suggested that when a
certain presidential
candidate who has already
been demonized as a crypto-
Muslim runs for reelection,
the country's most vocal
Islamophobes could once
again find a national
platform amid the frenzied
atmosphere of the campaign.
By now, the Islamophobic
crusade has gone beyond the
right-wing pro-Israel
activists, cyber-bigots, and
ambitious hucksters who
conceived it. It now belongs
to leading Republican
presidential candidates, top-
rated cable news hosts, and
crowds of Tea Party
activists. As the fervor
spreads, the crusaders are
basking in the glory of what
they accomplished. "I didn't
choose this moment," Geller
mused to the New York
Times, "this moment chose
me."
A/lax Blumenthal is an
award-winning journalist
whose work has appeared in
the New York Times, the
Los Angeles Times, the
Daily Beast, the Nation, the
114ington Post, the
Independent Film Channel,
Salon, corn, Al Jazeera
English, and other
publications. He is a writing
fellow Ibr the Nation
Institute and author of the
bestselling book Republican
Gomorrah: Inside the
Movement That Shattered
:the ParN (Nation Books).
Copyright 2010 Max
Blumenthal.
© 2010 TomDispatch. All rights reserved.
View this story online at:
http://www.tomdispatch.com/blog/175334/
 --- 

Dan Feldman
Importance: High
I'm involved in preparations for the Holbrooke memorial service at the Kennedy Center on Jan.
14, and I need to get your guidance/decision on your own role. I'm reachable through Ops, or
on my cell although I'll be out-of-pocket between 5 and 7 this
afternoon/evening. Regards, Strobe
Strobe Talbott
President, The Brookings Institution
1775 Massachusetts Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
702 797 6700
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

The Senate goes back in at 930 tues am. The Cloture vote on the cr will be at 1015. Alexander will also be recognized
for a 10 minute statement - most believe so he can announce his support for START.
Brown also announced his support for the Treaty this evening. With Alexander, that should put us at the 9 needed
Republicans (Alexander, Bennett, Brown, Collins, Gregg, Isakson, Lugar, Snowe and Voinovich). There are several others
in play (Corker, Chamblis, Cochran, McCain and Murkowski). Moreover, there are bound to be some "sleepers" as the
vp called them. This could be Roberts, Crapo, Kirk or others.
We have a meeting in the morning with Kerry, Lugar and Kyl to discuss the remaining amendments. Reid is encouraging
Kerry to offer to vote on a handful of R amendments post cloture, but then move fairly deliberately to a vote on
ratification.
The end is in sight....
 --- 

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am MEETING w/FRANK WISNER
9:30 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:30 am OFFICE TIME
10:00 am Secretary's Office
10:00 am PHOTOS (2)
10:05 am Secretary's Outer Office
10:05 am BRIEFING ON DASHBOARD
10:15 am Cheryl's Office
10:15 am BUDGET TEAM MEETING
11:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
11:45am PHONE CALL w/ANGOIAN FM JORGE REBELO CHICOTY
Secretary's Office
12:00pm PHONE CALL w/GERMAN FM GUIDO WESTERWELLE
Secretary's Office
12:30pm PHONE CALL w/IAEA DIR. GEN. YUKIYA AMANO
Secretary's Office
1:00pm PHONE CALL w/EU HIGH REP CATHERINE ASHTON
Secretary's Office
1:30pm OFFICE TIME
Secretary's Office
2:30pm PHONE CALL w/ITALIAN FM FRANCO FRATTINI
Secretary's office
3:00pm OFFICE TIME
6:00(t) Secretary's Office
6:00 pm (t)DEPART State Department
En route Private Residence
6:10 pm (t)ARRIVE Private Residence
###
Claire L. Coleman
Office Manager to the Secretary of State
U.S. Department of State
Tel: 202-647-7098
E-Mail: ColemanCL@state.gov
 --- 

Will let you know about timing on each. Apparently the VP may come up for the cloture vote but that hasn't been
decided yet.
 --- 

Thank rich
Passing to hrc
 --- 

Is speaking now. Saying he supports and releasing the letter.
 --- 

Will start work on it right now.
 --- 

Will do
 --- 

I'm at the post office but Huma has this printed for you.
 --- 

67 -28
Better than we thought. I
 --- 

You will'enjoy this - the senate democratic communications center sent it out today. AM
 --- 

Asking.
 --- 

Think it will be in the 12 to 2 timeframe. We are down to about 5 amendments, two of which we may just be able to
accept. Spent some quality time with John McCain tonight, who once again railed about Putin on Larry King. Totally
surreal that's what this has come down to...will email or call when we know more. Just had our last vote for the night.
 --- 

Cannot do 8:30am.
 --- 


 --- 

--•
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Think we just got him. He cosponsored the Corker missile defense amendment...
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Wednesday, December 22, 2010 11:48 AM
FW: QDDR FOLLOWUP
Sigh — despite my having advised otherwise ...
 --- 

Just adopted the last amendment...could vote in the next hour or two. Still waiting for a uc agreement to lock in a time
certain. But I believe it will be between now and 2.
 --- 

This is an major achievement, and an even greater disaster averted. AM
 --- 

We just got a short term extension through the House and Senate.
 --- 

Madame Secretary, we have drafted a statement on the 9/11 health bill with help from Chris Falvo, Miguel, and
Ann Gavaghan. Passing it along for your review.
Thanks
Dan
###
This email is UNCLASSIFIED.
 --- 


 --- 

Done.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

What do u think about calling mcconnell?
 --- 

Ok. Rich confirms we got Nides, Brownfield, the MCC reps, and the UNGA reps. USAID got Paige Alexander.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

He has some interesting reports from the Pal side, if you have a moment to talk secure.
 --- 

Thought you'd like to see this. Rose did a great job, especially with Russian media, and the new system seems to be
working.
Sorry I didn't get to see you before you left. Hope you have a happy and peaceful holiday and actually manage to get a
bit of down time --- is that even possible???
Cheers,
jm
 --- 

HRC:
(Oscar — can you print for her)
Below is the draft OMB letter. After you review, we will send it to OMB with the goal to get it to them early afternoon. I
am heading to a lunch and then back — you can reach me or Jeanne through Ops.
Cdm
Dear Mr. Lew:
B
B5
B
Sincerely,
Hillary Rodham Clinton
Secretary of State
Enclosure:
As stated.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

thanks
 --- 

Please print for HRC
cdm
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Crowley, Philip J <CrowleyR1@state.gov>
Friday, December 24, 2010 4:21 PM
Mills, Cheryl D; McHale, Judith A; Koh, Harold Hongju; Kennedy, Patrick F; Verma,
Richard R; Sullivan, Jacob J; Reines, Philippe I; Goldberg, Philip S; Burns, William J;
Steinberg, James B; Hormats, Robert D; Posner, Michael H; Abedin, Huma
WikiLeaks Update
Madame Secretary, first of all, Merry Christmas. I trust you, the President and Chelsea will have a special holiday.
PJ
 --- 

I will be in and out of the office this week, but will intermittently check my e-mail. Should you need assistance with
urgent matters concerning FSI and NENA area studies,please contact Program Assistant John Manion,
manionje@state.gov, 703-302-6862.
 --- 

Piper Campbell is out of Washington until Wed., Dec 29. Please contact Maya Seiden or Nadia Shepherd.
 --- 

I will be out of the office until January 3rd. For immediate assistance please contact the D(L) staff assistants. Many
thanks, Dana
 --- 

Nice piece
Caitlin had made me talk to him last monday
 --- 

I can do now if you can - otherwise, noon
 --- 

Will call you at house
 --- 

No worries
 --- 

Will shoot you time later - have fun
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob.) <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Monday, December 27, 2010 7:46 AM
Khodorkovsky verdict
Embassy Moscow and Bill recommend that we put out the below statement in your name.
STATEMENT BY SECRETARY CLINTON
Statement on the Verdict in the Khodorkoysky/Lebedev Case
 --- 

Flying back this morning. Back this afternoon.
 --- 

Me too! On way to airport now - think DC is okay.
 --- 

I hope all the Clintons had a wonderful Xmas.
1.4(D)
B1
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Sorry
I can talk later - will that work?
 --- 


 --- 

Will do
 --- 

he's meeting with Amb Moriarty tomw B5
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

•
FYI — see below. Dennis is on a plane today but we will talk secure this evening.
 --- 

Easy come, easy go. See below
 --- 

Strobe Talbott
Wednesday, December 29, 2010 4:01 PM
Jake Sullivan (DOS); Cheryl Mills (State); Dan Feldman; Huma Abedin
following up
Thanks so much for the chance to talk. I've relayed all your answers/suggestions to George
Stevens, and we'll proceed thus on all points. As for the reception, it'll be upstairs at the
Kennedy Center, starting at 4:30.
Again, Happy New Year to you, Bill, Chelsea and Mark — and to your terrific team.
Strobe
Strobe Talbott
President, The Brookings Institution
I 775 Massachusetts Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20036
. 202.797.6200
 --- 


 --- 

I am really sorry I can't serve out the full term in H. I love my job, the people of the Department and working for you.
Needless to say, I am grateful beyond words for the opportunity you offered me these last two years.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

Ok
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Thank you for your message.
I am currently out of the office and will return on Monday, January 3, 2011. I will be checking my messages regularly.
Thanks.
 --- 

B1
B5
Moriarty met with officials and yesterday separately. They are all having dinner together tonight.
 --- 

You voted against raising the debt limit on the following occasions:
June 11, 2002
May 23, 2003
March 16, 2006
Additionally, on March 11, 2004, you voted for a Lautenberg amendment that would have struck a provision in the CR
raising the debt limit.
Increases to the debt limit were also debated and considered by the Senate on March 17, 2004 and September 27, 2007.
You did not cast a vote either time.
 --- 

AM
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Thursday, December 30, 2010 3:07 PM
Kendall, David; H
RE: Attorney-client privileged/confidential
Happy New Year to you both and to the Kendall extended family.
Xo
cdm
 --- 


 --- 

Verveer, Melanne S <VerveerMS@state.gov>
Friday, December 31, 2010 12:10 AM
FW: Dinner with MY and GR
Readout from the dinner tonight.
 --- 

After nearly two months of legal wrangling, Senator Murkowski was finally certified as the winner of the Alaska Senate
race on Thursday. The Governor and Lt. Governor signed the paperwork certifying the result, in time for the Senator to
be sworn in next Wednesday with the rest of her colleagues.
 --- 

Thanks. Hooe you are having a good break
Happy New Year!
 --- 


 --- 

Maybe more than you want to know. Obviously, TBD.
Happy New Year to all the Clintons!
1.4(D)
B1
RELEASE IN PART
B1,1.4(D)
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Yes.
 --- 

H:
Les Gelb, who oversaw the writing of the Pentagon Papers, makes the points that Wikileaks show US today trying to
solve difficult international problems, telling the truth and diplomats acting professionally.
Wiki Leaks Accidentally Helps U.S.
by Leslie H. Gelb
November 30, 2010 I 10:42pm
Julian Assange clearly intended the State Dept. cable leaks to smear the U.S. as evil and selfish. Leslie
H. Gelb on how he inadvertently proved the opposite.
The Wikileakers dumped a vast pile of secrets to prove that the United States was selfish, stupid and wicked—but their
revelations proved just the opposite. When you remove the gossip and obvious trivia that mesmerized the press, you
clearly see what the Wikileakers never expected: A United States seriously and professionally trying to solve the most
dangerous problems in a frighteningly complicated world, yet lacking the power to dictate solutions. U.S. policymakers
and diplomats are shown, quite accurately, doing what they are supposed to do: ferreting out critical information from
foreign leaders, searching for paths to common action, and struggling with the right amount of pressure to apply on allies
and adversaries. And in most cases, the villain is not Washington, but foreign leaders escaping common action with
cowardice and hypocrisy.
Don't think for a New York minute that Julian Assange, the Wikileaker, unloaded this trove to save humankind. Why did he
toss in those cables about Italy's leader being a rake and Germany's chancellor being a cautious fuddy-duddy, and
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan being "paranoid"? To save the world? Not a chance. He did it to get attention, and
he got attention from a drooling press, which then went on to call the very material they were highlighting trivial. Did
Assange leak critical conversations with Chinese or Arab leaders to help solve the problems in Korea and Iran? Not by the
hair on your chinny chin chin. He did it to show that he could do it—and for the attention. Anyone who is not a hopeless
left-wing ideologue knows that such leaks will crush future serious conversations with those leaders for some time to
come. Just think: if you told someone a serious and critical confidence about someone else, and your confidant went out
and told others, would you soon repeat that mistake? Assange did not leak these cables to help solve world problems.
These leaks were absolutely gratuitous and served only the purpose of making him a media marvel.
When you actually read the cables, here's what you see: American leaders and American diplomats trying to solve crucial
world In explaining his deed publicly, Assange suggests that what he's doing is uncovering American misdeeds and lies.
His aim, he says, is to inform citizens of democracies and peoples around the world about what their leaders are really
doing. Assange also insists he did this for transparency's sake. Yet when he got to look inside, he didn't see what was
plain: that our diplomats were doing a good job. Indeed, when you turn off his nonsense and stop listening to the strange
commentary on cable news and even on the front pages of great newspapers, when you actually read the cables, here's
what you see: American leaders and American diplomats trying to solve crucial world problems.
But when you turn off his nonsense and stop listening to the strange commentary on cable news and even on the front
pages of great newspapers, when you actually read the cables, here's what you see: American leaders and American
diplomats trying to solve crucial world problems.
—Washington needs China's help in bolstering sanctions against Iran, and China balks for fear of jeopardizing its oil and
gas flow from that country. The Obama team arranges for Saudi Arabia to guarantee any loss in supply to China. If the
world wants to slow or even prevent Iran's march to nuclear weaponry, this is a key path to doing so.
—
The U.S. discovers that North Korea has manufactured new medium-range missiles and is trying to deliver them to Iran
through China. The Obama team discovers this, informs Beijing, and asks Beijing to stop the transfer. Beijing declines.
Really creepy.
—
Yemen's leader takes public responsibility for American missile attacks against Al Qaeda in Yemen. He wants to
diminish the power of these terrorists, as do Americans and most others in the world. The "lie" by the Yemeni president is
a harmless way to get a critical job done—that is, the job of fighting international terrorism. Wikileaks tears away the
political cover of Yemen's leaders.
—No country has anywhere near as much influence over nutty North Korea as China. So, U.S. diplomats are searching
desperately to figure out Chinese thinking about North Korea in order to compose a plan for avoiding war on the Korean
Peninsula. So, the Wikileakers expose some Chinese leaders who are actually trying to give us some insight into Chinese
thinking about North Korean craziness. They won't do that again soon.
Time and again, as one actually reads these cables, one has to be heartened by the professionalism and the insights of
U.S. diplomats. What are they doing? They are not lying, and U.S. leaders are not lying. They are actually, believe it or
not, trying to solve problems. That seriousness of purpose and the professionalism to execute it is what jumps out at you
in these materials.
So, the naïve say, it's good to show the effectiveness of our diplomats. Give me a break. Ask any American diplomat to
choose between looking intelligent in leaked cables and making progress toward avoiding war.
None of this is to say that there should not be leaks, or that the press should not pursue classified information that is
necessary or very helpful to a sensible public debate on policy. If a U.S. administration is lying, or distorting the facts, or
telling one story to the public and another to itself, then by all means, let's have it out in public. If the U.S. government is
concocting intelligence in order to justify wars, let's hope an enterprising reporter finds it out for the rest of us.
But the Wikileaks dump is not about providing essential information to Americans or to others—information they need for
serious policy discussion. This massive trashing by Wikileaks of a legitimate effort by the U.S. government to preserve
confidentiality is the very least a shame and at the most, a crime.
Leslie H. Gelb, a former New York Times columnist and senior government official, is author of Power Rules: How
Common Sense Can Rescue American Foreign Policy (HarperCollins 2009), a book that shows how to think about and
use power in the 21st century. He is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Like The Daily Beast on Facebook and follow us on Twitter for updates all day long.
For inquiries, please contact The Daily Beast at editorial@thedailybeast.com.
RL: http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-11-30/wikileaks-helps-america-how-julian-assange-proved-us-
working-hard-on-policy-problems/p/
 --- 


 --- 

Good stuff.
 --- 

Update from phil
 --- 

Here is the Republican former Secretaries of State op ed, which ran in today's wash post.
The Republican case for ratifying New START
bn)://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/01/AR2010120104598.html?hpid=topnews
By Henry A. Kissinger, George P. Shultz, James A. Baker III, Lawrence S. Eagleburger and Colin L. Powell
Thursday, December 2, 2010;
Republican presidents have long led the crucial fight to protect the United States against nuclear dangers. That
is why Presidents Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush negotiated the SALT I, START I and
START II agreements. It is why President George W. Bush negotiated the Moscow Treaty. All four recognized
that reducing the number of nuclear arms in an open, verifiable manner would reduce the risk of nuclear
catastrophe and increase the stability of America's relationship with the Soviet Union and, later, the Russian
Federation. The world is safer today because of the decades-long effort to reduce its supply of nuclear weapons.
As a result, we urge the Senate to ratify the New START treaty signed by President Obama and Russian
President Dmitry Medvedev. It is a modest and appropriate continuation of the START I treaty that expired
almost a year ago. It reduces the number of nuclear weapons that each side deploys while enabling the United
States to maintain a strong nuclear deterrent and preserving the flexibility to deploy those forces as we see fit.
Along with our obligation to protect the homeland, the United States has responsibilities to allies around the
world. The commander of our nuclear forces has testified that the 1,550 warheads allowed under this treaty are
sufficient for all our missions - and seven former nuclear commanders agree. The defense secretary, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the head of the Missile Defense Agency - all originally appointed by a
Republican president - argue that New START is essential for our national defense.
We do not make a recommendation about the exact timing of a Senate ratification vote. That is a matter for the
administration and Senate leaders. The most important thing is to have bipartisan support for the treaty, as
previous nuclear arms treaties did.
Although each of us had initial questions about New START, administration officials have provided reasonable
answers. We believe there are compelling reasons Republicans should support ratification.
First, the agreement emphasizes verification, providing a valuable window into Russia's nuclear arsenal. Since
the original START expired last December, Russia has not been required to provide notifications about changes
in its strategic nuclear arsenal, and the United States has been unable to conduct on-site inspections. Each day,
America's understanding of Russia's arsenal has been degraded, and resources have been diverted from national
security tasks to try to fill the gaps. Our military planners increasingly lack the best possible insight into
Russia's activity with its strategic nuclear arsenal, making it more difficult to carry out their nuclear deterrent
mission.
Second, New START preserves our ability to deploy effective missile defenses. The testimonies of our military
commanders and civilian leaders make clear that the treaty does not limit U.S. missile defense plans. Although
the treaty prohibits the conversion of existing launchers for intercontinental and submarine-based ballistic
missiles, our military leaders say they do not want to do that because it is more expensive and less effective than
building new ones for defense purposes.
Finally, the Obama administration has agreed to provide for modernization of the infrastructure essential to
maintaining our nuclear arsenal. Funding these efforts has become part of the negotiations in the ratification
process. The administration has put forth a 10-year plan to spend $84 billion on the Energy Department's
nuclear weapons complex. Much of the credit for getting the administration to add $14 billion to the originally
proposed $70 billion for modernization goes to Sen. Jon Kyl, the Arizona Republican who has been vigilant in
this effort. Implementing this modernization program in a timely fashion would be important in ensuring that
our nuclear arsenal is maintained appropriately over the next decade and beyond.
Although the United States needs a strong and reliable nuclear force, the chief nuclear danger today comes not
from Russia but from rogue states such as Iran and North Korea and the potential for nuclear material to fall
into the hands of terrorists. Given those pressing dangers, some question why an arms control treaty with Russia
matters. It matters because it is in both parties' interest that there be transparency and stability in their strategic
nuclear relationship. It also matters because Russia's cooperation will be needed if we are to make progress in
rolling back the Iranian and North Korean programs. Russian help will be needed to continue our work to
secure "loose nukes" in Russia and elsewhere. And Russian assistance is needed to improve the situation in
Afghanistan, a breeding ground for international terrorism.
Obviously, the United States does not sign arms control agreements just to make friends. Any treaty must be
considered on its merits. But we have here an agreement that is clearly in our national interest, and we should
consider the ramifications of not ratifying it.
Whenever New START is brought up for debate, we encourage all senators to focus on national security. There
are plenty of opportunities to battle on domestic political issues linked to the future of the American economy.
With our country facing the dual threats of unemployment and a growing federal debt bomb, we anticipate
significant conflict between Democrats and Republicans. It is, however, in the national interest to ratify New
START.
The writers were secretaries of state for the past five Republican presidents.
Unsubscribe
The White House • 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW • Washington DC 20500 • 202-456-1111
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

FROM WIKILEAKS FOUNDER ASSANGE
 --- 


 --- 

-----
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Ok. No problem.
We leave at 10:45. They will be here 9:45.
Brief at 10:15 with jeff etc.
 --- 


 --- 

Email from Eric
Background for you
 --- 

Jake suggesting we do a condolence call to netanyahu and offer assistance. Ok?
Israel rescuers: forest fire leaves about 40 dead JERUSALEM (AP) - Israel's national rescue service said about 40 people
died in the wake of a massive forest fire in northern Israel. The blaze, which has torched some 1,600 acres, remains out
of control.
 --- 

We'll keep working it.
We can make the Iran fix.
On the overall wordiness, etc., Megan has known that it needs smoothing/streamlining/sharpening and intended to
spend the day doing that.
 --- 


 --- 

sbwhoeop
Friday, December 3, 2010 9:55 AM
H: Roger Cohen in NYT: "American Diplomacy Revealed — as Good"
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/03/opinion/03iht-edcohen.html?hp
December 2, 2010
American Diplomacy Revealed as Good
By ROGER COHEN
NEW YORK — Let's hear it for the men and women of the U.S. Foreign Service!
They are, to judge from the WikiLeaks dump of a quarter-million of their private or secret cables, thoughtful, well-informed
and dedicated servants of the American interest who write clear, declarative English sentences.
I've not heard much in the torrent of Wiki-chatter about these admirable career diplomats whose diplomacy is now
condemned to be unquiet. Yet it is they whose lives have been upturned. Every journalist knows that if their
correspondence over several years was suddenly made public, they would lose most of their sources. That should give
every journalist pause.
So it will be on the front line of U.S. diplomacy. Contacts will self-censor. They will go quiet, particularly in the more
conspiratorial parts of the world which also tend to be the most unstable, like the Middle East. Layers of secrecy will be
added.
Julian Assange, the thin-skinned founder of WikiLeaks, has hurt U.S. interests across a broad but probably shallow
spectrum. That will satisfy him in that he's a self-styled foe of the United States. The guy makes me queasy.
Perhaps the most shocking thing about the Assange treasure trove — beyond the "shock" of venal Gulf Arab Sunni
leaders looking for war on the cheap against Shiite Iran so long as it doesn't disrupt their U.S.-armed fiefdoms; or the
"shock" of Pakistani double-dealing and nuclear procrastination; or the "shock" of yet more premature Israeli predictions
on when Iran will have a nuclear weapon; or the "shock" of continued Saudi funding of Al Qaeda; or the "shock" of the
Chinese Politburo hacking into Google; or the "shock" of Muammar el-Qaddafi's taste for voluptuous Slavic women and
Silvio Berlusconi's taste for all women — perhaps the biggest shock of all is just how professional, sober and short on
embarrassment all these cables are and just how much they conform with the world as we already knew it, right down to
the familiar adjectives evoking French President Nicolas Sarkozy: "hyperactive," "mercurial," "authoritarian," "erratic,"
"monarch-like."
I swear, if they hadn't become diplomats a lot of these State Department people could have become good hacks.
Overall, my longstanding admiration for America's conscientious diplomats has been redoubled, not least for this
underreported nugget on the turbulent Iranian election of 2009, contained in a cable of Jan. 12, 2010, from Dubai: "While
we don't know nor might not ever know the real June 12 vote count, it is clear that the turnout was at record high levels
and that there was systematic vote count fraud (if in fact the votes were even counted) to ensure that Ahmadinejad 'won
big' in the first round."
It is good to know that this is the innermost conviction of American diplomacy: the fraud was evident to anyone in Tehran
during the election and its violent aftermath.
A couple more observations on Iran: The first is that the Sunni autocrats of the Gulf are as exercised as they are about
Tehran in part because they know that any U.S.-Iranian breakthrough might make them more dispensable to the United
States. Their vested interest in the prevailing Middle Eastern strategic equation is strong; nothing would redraw the Middle
East more than overcoming the U.S.-Iranian psychosis.
The second is that President Barack Obama's approach to Iran has been much more conventional than his initial outreach
suggested. Old habits of attempted coercion trumped originality. Very quickly he fell back on Dennis Ross's tired thinking
about balancing "appetizing carrots" with "sharp sticks" in tackling Iran's nuclear program.
The cables reveal that as early as March 2009, a senior U.S. diplomat was talking "dual track," telling Europeans that
"engagement alone is unlikely to succeed" and calling for added "pressure." Perhaps Iranian skepticism could never have
been overcome; certainly this approach guaranteed longstanding Iranian grievances would fester.
Assange himself clearly understands nothing of Iran or the Middle East or diplomacy. In an interview with Time, he
expressed approval for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu "coming out with a very interesting statement that
leaders should speak in public like they do in private whenever they can" and bought into Netanyahu's view that this, in
Assange's words, would "lead to some kind of increase in the peace process in the Middle East and particularly in relation
to Iran.
It
Huh? Netanyahu was referring to Arab leaders' now-documented private calls for a U.S.-led war against Iran, an option he
also favors. And that, for Assange, is a step forward to peace! He's all over the place.
What should we make of this brainy naïf who told my colleague John Burns that America is a threat to democracy? He's a
loose canon; let him be. My impression is he's self-armed with a spade and he's digging.
And what of the messenger's message? The cables are intriguing, offering plenty of voyeuristic titillation but no gasp of
discovery. They provide texture but break little new ground. Yet their publication has done significant damage to the
courageous work of America's diplomats and may endanger lives. That's a tradeoff that I find troubling and unpersuasive.
 --- 


 --- 

141737V7SMIZITMItlfaliZZI%
Good luck out there. Talk sometime
Sent via DROID on Verizon Wireless
--Original message
 --- 

Ok
-----
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B6
sbwhoeop
Saturday, December 4, 2010 1:58 PM
Re: H: Roger Cohen in NYT: "American Diploma cy Revealed — as Good"
I'm at home now. or on cell
 --- 

I am on official travel and should be back in the office on Monday, December 6. I will check this system intermittently.
 --- 

I've told ops to hold any further dissemination until you have talked with these guys about how to execute the call back.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, December 4, 2010 7:08 PM
H: Kathleen on Palin on JFK. Sid
B6
Sarah Palin is wrong about John F. Kennedy, religion and
politics
By Kathleen Kennedy Townsend
Friday, December 3, 2010; 6:00 PM
Sarah Palin has found a new opponent to debate: John F. Kennedy.
In her new book, "America by Heart," Palin objects to my uncle's famous 1960 speech to the Greater Houston Ministerial
Association, in which he challenged the ministers - and the country - to judge him, a Catholic presidential candidate, by
his views rather than his faith. "Contrary to common newspaper usage, I am not the Catholic candidate for president,"
Kennedy said. "I am the Democratic Party's candidate for president who happens also to be a Catholic."
Palin writes that when she was growing up, she was taught that Kennedy's speech had "succeeded in the best possible
way: It reconciled public service and religion without compromising either." Now, however, she says she has revisited the
speech and changed her mind. She finds it "defensive . . . in tone and content" and is upset that Kennedy, rather than
presenting a reconciliation of his private faith and his public role, had instead offered an "unequivocal divorce of the two."
Palin's argument seems to challenge a great American tradition, enshrined in the Constitution, stipulating that there be no
religious test for public office. A careful reading of her book leads me to conclude that Palin wishes for precisely such a
test. And she seems to think that she, and those who think like her, are qualified to judge who would pass and who would
not.
If there is no religious test, then there is no need for a candidate's religious affiliation to be "reconciled." My uncle urged
that religion be private, removed from politics, because he feared that making faith an arena for public contention would
lead American politics into ill-disguised religious warfare, with candidates tempted to use faith to manipulate voters and
demean their opponents.
Kennedy cited Thomas Jefferson to argue that. as part of the American tradition, it was essential to keep any semblance
of a religious test out of the political realm. Best to judge candidates on their public records, their positions on war and
peace, jobs, poverty, and health care. No one, Kennedy pointed out, asked those who died at the Alamo which church
they belonged to.
But Palin insists on evaluating and acting as an authority on candidates' faith. She faults Kennedy for not "telling the
country how his faith had enriched him." With that line, she proceeds down a path fraught with danger - precisely the path
my uncle warned against when he said that a president's religious views should be "neither imposed by him upon the
nation or imposed by the nation upon him as a condition to holding that office."
After all, a candidate's faith will matter most to those who believe that they have the right to serve as arbiters of that faith.
Is it worthy? Is it deep? Is it reflected in a certain ideology?
Palin further criticizes Kennedy because, "rather than spelling out how faith groups had provided life-changing services
and education to millions of Americans, he repeatedly objected to any government assistance to religious schools." She
does not seem to appreciate that Kennedy was courageous in arguing that government funds should not be used in
parochial schools, despite the temptation to please his constituents. Many Catholics would have liked the money. But he
wisely thought that the use of public dollars in places where nuns explicitly proselytized would be unconstitutional. Tax
money should not be used to persuade someone to join a religion.
As a contrast to Kennedy's speech, Palin cites former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney's remarks during the 2008
Republican primary campaign, in which he spoke publicly of "how my own faith would inform my presidency, if I were
elected." After paying lip service to the separation of church and state, Romney condemned unnamed enemies "intent on
establishing a new religion in America - the religion of secularism."
"There is one fundamental question about which I am often asked," Romney said. "What do I believe about Jesus Christ?"
Romney, of course, is a Mormon. He answered the question, proclaiming that "Jesus Christ is the son of God."
Palin praises Romney for delivering a "thoughtful speech that eloquently and correctly described the role of faith in
American public life." But if there should be no religious test in politics, then why should a candidate feel compelled to
respond to misplaced questions about his belief in Jesus?
When George Romney, Mitt Romney's father, was a presidential candidate in 1968, he felt no such compulsion. Respect
for the Constitution and the founders' belief in the separation of church and state suggests that those kinds of questions
should not play a role in political campaigns.
Palin contends that Kennedy sought to "run away from religion." The truth is that my uncle knew quite well that what made
America so special was its revolutionary assertion of freedom of religion. No nation on Earth had ever framed in law that
faith should be of no interest to government officials. For centuries, European authorities had murdered and tortured those
whose religious beliefs differed from their own.
To demand that citizens display their religious beliefs attacks the very foundation of our nation and undermines the
precise reason that America is exceptional.
Palin's book makes clear just how dangerous her proposed path can be. Not only does she want people to reveal their
beliefs, but she wants to sit in judgment of them if their views don't match her own. For instance, she criticizes Rep. Nancy
Pelosi (Calif.), a Democrat and a faithful Catholic, for "talking the (God) talk but not walking the walk."
Who is Palin to say what God's "walk" is? Who anointed her our grand inquisitor?
This is a woman who also praises Abraham Lincoln's Second Inaugural, even though Lincoln explicitly declared, "But let
us judge not that we not be judged." The problem for those setting up a free-floating tribunal to evaluate faith is that,
contrary to Lincoln, they are installing themselves as judges who can look into others' souls and assess their worthiness.
Kennedy did not and would not do that, but not because he was indifferent to faith. In fact, unlike Romney or Palin, in
fealty to both his faith and the Constitution, he promised on that day in Houston that he would resign if his religion ever
interfered with his duty as president.
My uncle was a man who had his faith tested. His brother and brother-in-law were killed in World War II, and his sister
died in a plane crash soon after the war. He suffered from painful injuries inflicted during his Navy service when his PT
boat was cut in two by a Japanese destroyer. His God did not make life easy but did require a commitment to justice.
America's first and oniy Catholic president referred to God three times in p_;.-:
.:1,rai.adc'res and invoked the Bible's
command to care for poor and the sick. Later in his presidency, 1.-.a ur;:•:-.1uvocaliv. about riohi:s: We are
confronted primarily with a moral issue. It is as old as the Scriptures and is as clear as the American Constitution."
Faith runs as a deep current through my family. Faith inspired my uncles' and my father's dedication to justice. My father,
Robert F. Kennedy, on returning from apartheid-era South Africa in 1966, wrote a magazine article titled "Suppose God Is -
Black." And my uncle Teddy fought for health care for all Americans, even if in her book }Dalin presumes to judge that he
took positions "directly at odds with his Catholic faith."
Teddy Kennedy believed that his stands were at one with his faith. He did disagree with the Roman Catholic hierarchy at
times. But as we have seen, the hierarchy's positions can change, and in our church, we have an obligation to help bring
about those changes. That may not be Palin's theology, but the glory of America is its support for those who would
disagree - even on the most difficult and personal matters, such as religion.
John F. Kennedy knew that tearing down the wall separating church and state would tempt us toward self-righteousness
and contempt for others. That is one reason he delivered his Houston speech.
Palin, for her part, argues that "morality itself cannot be sustained without the support of religious beliefs." That statement
amounts to a wholesale attack on countless Americans, and no study or reasonable argument I have seen or heard would
support such a blanket condemnation. For a person who claims to admire Lincoln, Palin curiously ignores his injunction
that Americans, even those engaged in a Civil War, show "malice toward none, with charity for ail."
Pal in fails to understand the genius of our nation. The United States is one of the most vibrant religious countries on Earth
precisely because of its religious freedom. When power and faith are entwined, faith loses. Power tends to obfuscate,
corrupt and focus on temporal rather than eternal purposes.
Somehow Palin misses this. Perhaps she didn't read the full Houston speech; she certainly doesn't know it by heart. Or
she may be appealing to a religious right that really seeks secular power. I don't know.
I am certain, however, that no American political leader should cavalierly - or out of political calculation - dismiss the hard-
won ideal of religious freedom that is among our country's greatest gifts to the world. As John F. Kennedy said in Houston,
that is the "kind of America I believe in."
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend is a former lieutenant governor of Maryland and the author of "Failing America's Faithful:
How Today's Churches Are Mixing God With Politics and Losing Their Wav." She will be online on Monday, Dec. 6 at 11
a.m. EST to chat. Submit your questions before or during the discussion.
© 2010 The Washington Post Company
 --- 


 --- 

One thing I forgot - Holbrooke called me this morning. He urged again that you see Lam bah (Tom is seeing him; Bill
Burns has provided guidance on points you could make if you do). He also inquired aggressively about Karl's future. And
he wants to come see you about Frank's last trip.
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Verveer, Melanne S <VerveerMS@state.gov>
Monday, December 6, 2010 3:02 AM
Fw:
1.4(D)
B1
Just when we thought thing had calmed down....
 --- 

Verveer, Melanne S <VerveerMS@state.gov>
Monday, December 6, 2010 6:01 AM
More
1.4(D)
B1
 --- 

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BR/EFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am MONDAY MEETING w/ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:00 am HST 7516, Principals Conference Room
10:00 am OFFICE TIME
11:15 am Secretary's Office
11:15 am MEETING w/SOUTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTER KIM SUNG-HWAN
11:45 am Secretary's Conference Room *Camera spray at top in Treaty Room.
11:45 am OFFICE TIME
12:15 pm Secretary's Office
12:15 pm MEETING w/JAPANESE FOREIGN MINISTER SEIJI MAEHARA
12:45 pm Deputy Secretary's Conference Room *Camera spray at top in Treaty Room.
1:00 pm MEETING w/JAPANESE FOREIGN MINISTER SEIJI MAEHARA AND
3:00 pm SOUTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTER KIM SUNG-HWAN
Franklin Room, 811' Floor *Open press at top.
3:00 pm PRESS PREP/PULL-ASIDE TIME
3:15 pm Madison Room, 8th Floor
3:30 pm PRESS AVAILABILITY w/JAPANESE FOREIGN MINISTER SEIJI
4:00 pm MAEHARA AND SOUTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTER KIM SUNG-HWAN
Franklin Room, 8' Floor
4:00 pm OFFICE TIME
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm MEETING w/SENATOR RUSS FEINGOLD
5:00 pm Secretary's Outer Office
Tbd pm DEPART State Department
En route Private Residence
Tbd pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

Verveer, Melanne S <VerveerMS©state.gov>
Monday, December 6, 2010 8:18 AM
Re: More 1.4(D)
B1
I just left DC last night and got to Brussels this morning.They have me on a treadmill but I will get to Bob. I already
emailed our ambassador to Bangladesh who was pulled into this several months ago.
 --- 

Will do
Fuchs, Michael H <FuchsMH@state.gov>
Monday, December 6, 2010 8:27 AM
Re:
 --- 

U.S. Orders Diplomats to Sto Telling Truth
httrzquIrmw.truf,hdig.coardreipiartliteir/us orders dirtbrnats to stoo teilinq truth 20'1012051
Posted on Dec 5, 2010
Fake news by Andy Borovvibe;
WASHINGTON—In the first major policy fallout from the WikiLeaks disclosures, the State Department has ordered all
U.S. diplomats to "cease and desist telling the truth until further notice."
"We are working overtime to fly to make sure that leaks like these don't happen again," Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
told reporters. "But until we've got the leaks plugged, it's incumbent on all our diplomats to put on their lying caps."
Clinton noted that since many U.S. diplomats are major political donors with long careers in the business world, "this
shouldn't be a reach for them." But for those career diplomats who came up through the Foreign Service, the State
Department will be holding a series of "truth avoidance seminars," led by executives of Goldman Sachs.
Additionally, Clinton said, the State Department would install on all diplomats' computers new software called
CandorShield', which automatically translates truthful language into a less embarrassing truth-free version. For
example, she explained, the software would translate the phrase "two-faced weasels" into "trusted Pakistani allies" and
would delete all references to French President Nicolas Sarkozy as "Monsieur Shorty Pants."
Elsewhere, Interpol issued this statement about its pursuit of WikiLea.ks founder Julian Assange: "We will find Julian
Assange, and then we will hire him."
 --- 

Dear Hillary,
I hear from Dianne and my staff that New Start is in play in the final CR/tax extension deal so I'm hopeful although I find
the process disturbing.
B6
-----
 --- 

Turns out the French got through to him today on Cote d'Ivoire — would you be up for calling him tomorrow?
 --- 

For your viz.
 --- 

I won't be there for some of your meetings today;however, wanted you to know that Norwegians agreed to match our
contribution to facilitate high crime cases and forensics work in DRC. They have been consistently excellent partners and
are very happy about your announcement to do a national plan on 1325, where they have also led. At NATO yesterday, I
learned about their recently adopted action plan on 1325, which the Dep SG said will have application in Afgh.
For the OECD meeting today, know that their leadership has been very supportive of our efforts to get OECD to collect
better data on women and economy as this is important to accelerating economic growth by addressing existing
barriers to women's economic participation.
I had very good mtgs at EU on potential development partnerships and sharing of successful models for gender
mainstreaming. Many greetings extended to you from all your friends.
Heading to Ukraine in the snow!
 --- 

Verveer, Melanne S <VerveerMS@state.gov>
Tuesday, December 7, 2010 3:41 AM
Fw: Norwegians to Issue Statement on
Also appropriate for today. Scroll down from top email to first in chain.
1.4(D)
 --- 


 --- 

OPINION DECEMBER 7, 2010
New Start: Ratify, With Caveats
The treaty helpfully reinstates on-site verification of Russian nuclear forces, but senators should make it clear to
Moscow that they don't see it as limiting U.S. missile defenses.
By CONDOLEEZZA RICE
When U.S. President Bush and Russian President Putin signed the Moscow Treaty in 2002, they addressed the nuclear
threat by reducing offensive weapons,-as their predecessors had. But the Moscow Treaty was different. It came in the
wake of America's 2001 withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty of 1972, and for the first time the United States
and Russia reduced their offensive nuclear weapons with no agreement in place that constrained missile defenses.
Breaking the link between offensive force reductions and limits on defense marked a key moment in the establishment
of a new nuclear agenda no longer focused on the Cold War face-off between the Warsaw Pact and NATO. The real
threat was that the world's most dangerous weapons could end up in the hands of the world's most dangerous
regimes—or of terrorists who would launch attacks more devastating than 9/11. And since those very rogue states also
pursued ballistic missiles, defenses would (alongside offensive weapons) be integral to the security of the United States
and our allies.
It is in this context that we should consider the potential contribution of the New Start treaty to U.S. national security.
The treaty is modest, reducing offensive nuclear weapons to 1,550 on each side—more than enough for deterrence.
While the treaty puts limits on launchers, U.S. military commanders have testified that we will be able to maintain a
triad of bombers, submarine-based delivery vehicles and land-based delivery vehicles. Moreover, the treaty helpfully
reinstates on-site verification of Russian nuclear forces, which lapsed with the expiration of the original Start treaty last
year.
Meaningful verification was a significant achievement of Presidents Reagan and George H.W. Bush, and its
reinstatement is crucial.
Still, there are legitimate concerns about New Start that must and can be addressed in the ratification process and, if the
treaty is ratified, in future monitoring of the Obama administration's commitments.
First, smaller forces make the modernization of our nuclear infrastructure even more urgent. Sen. Jon Kyl of Arizona has
led a valiant effort in this regard. Thanks to his efforts, roughly $84 billion is being allocated to the Department of
Energy's nuclear weapons complex. Ratifying the treaty will help cement these commitments, and Congress should fully
fund the president's program.
Congress should also support the Defense Department in modernizing our launchers as suggested in the recent defense
strategy study coauthored by former Secretary of Defense Bill Perry and former National Security Adviser Stephen
Hadley.
Second, the Senate must make absolutely clear that in ratifying this treaty, the U.S. is not re-establishing the Cold War
link between offensive forces and missile defenses. New Start's preamble is worrying in this regard, as it recognizes the
"interrelationship" of the two. Administration officials have testified that there is no link, and that the treaty will not
limit U.S. missile defenses. But Congress should ensure that future Defense Department budgets reflect this.
Moscow contends that only current U.S. missile-defense plans are acceptable under the treaty. But the U.S. must remain
fully free to explore and then deploy the best defenses—not just those imagined today. That includes pursuing both
potential qualitative breakthroughs and quantitative increases.
I have personally witnessed Moscow's tendency to interpret every utterance as a binding commitment. The Russians
need to understand that the U.S. will use the full-range of American technology and talent to improve our ability to
intercept and destroy the ballistic missiles of hostile countries.
Russia should be reassured by the fact that its nuclear arsenal is far too sophisticated and large to be degraded by our
missile defenses. In addition, the welcome agreements on missile-defense cooperation reached in Lisbon recently
between NATO and Russia can improve transparency and allow Moscow and Washington to work together in this field.
After all, a North Korean or Iranian missile is not a threat only to the United States, but to international stability broadly.
Ratification of the treaty also should not be sold as a way to buy Moscow's cooperation on other issues. The men in the
Kremlin know that loose nukes in the hands of terrorists—some who operate in Russia's unstable south—are dangerous.
That alone should give our governments a reason to work together beyond New Start and address the threat from
tactical nuclear weapons, which are smaller and more dispersed, and therefore harder to monitor and control. Russia
knows too that a nuclear Iran in the volatile Middle East or the further development of North Korea's arsenal is not in its
interest. Russia lives in those neighborhoods. That helps explain Moscow's toughening stance toward Tehran and its
longstanding concern about Pyongyang.
The issue before the Senate is the place of New Start in America's future security. Nuclear weapons will be with us for a
long time.
After this treaty, our focus must be on stopping dangerous proliferators—not on further reductions in the U.S. and
Russian strategic arsenals, which are really no threat to each other or to international stability.
A modern but smaller nuclear arsenal and increasingly sophisticated defenses are the right bases for U.S. nuclear
security (and that of our allies) going forward. With the right commitments and understandings, ratification of the New
Start treaty can contribute to this goal. If the Senate enters those commitments and understandings into the record of
ratification, New Start deserves bipartisan support, whether in the lame-duck session or next year.
Ms. Rice, a professor of political economy at the Stanford Graduate School of Business and a senior fellow at Stanford's
Hoover Institution, was U.S. national security adviser from 2001 to 2005 and U.S. secretary of state from 2005 to 2009.
 --- 

I just want to say that as I brief the QDDR (20 times and counting), one of the points that makes
the strongest impression, and that I frankly think is an enormous part of your intellectual and
practical legacy, is putting together all the bureaus that focus on protecting individuals — protecting
them from insurgent or criminal violence (CCO and INL), protecting their rights through law
(DRL, GTIP, S/WCI), or meeting their basic needs in humanitarian emergencies (PRM). It is a
major statement about the direction that the world is going and we must follow. This was really
your idea, and it is a powerful one. I know your decision today and applaud it. AM
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Tuesday, December 7, 2010 1:28 PM
Laszczych, Joanne
Fw: Draft Embassy Statement
Print this traffic for HRC
 --- 

A reporter named Kerry Elleveld of The Advocate is doing a possible cover story on your LBGT efforts at State. Caroline
has put her through the ringer of Cheryl, GLIFFA leaders and members, gay ambassadors, Pat Kennedy, etc etc. Would
love to put you on the phone with her in the next day or two. Should be super positive.
 --- 

Of course
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 


 --- 

This is the statement we released late last night.
Election results order Manigault, Celestin, MartieIly.
May be good to have Tom Adams give you a quick update today.
Cdm
 --- 

Good public movement on START by Judd Gregg.
G.O.P. Support for Arms Treaty
By
PETER BAKER
Another Republican senator signaled Tuesday that he may vote for the new arms control treaty with Russia if it comes
up for a vote before the Senate adjourns for the year later this month.
Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, who did not run for re-election, said he hopes that the Senate will get a chance
to vote on the treaty, known as New Start, right after a deal on tax cuts and a spending resolution to keep the
government operating.
"Start is an important issue. It should be fully debated. I am leaning towards supporting it," he told Andrea Mitchell on
MSNBC. "I haven't made a final decision," he added, noting that Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the lead Republican
negotiator on the treaty, still has concerns. "He has some reservations, but I believe many of those reservations are
being addressed," Mr. Gregg said.
President Obama has made passing the treaty his top foreign policy priority for the lame-duck session. Under the
Constitution, approving a treaty requires a two-thirds super-majority, or 67 votes, meaning that Mr. Obama needs nine
Republicans assuming all 58 Democrats stick with him.
At this point, more than that many Republicans have offered positive-sounding statements like that made on Tuesday
 --- 

Madame Secretary, thought you might appreciate this.
PJ
This email is UNCLASSIFIED.
 --- 

Senate may move to START tonight....after failed cloture votes....and before fy 11 budget and tax issues.
 --- 

Interesting approach towards influencing popular attitudes. We are
I'm speaking at the Democracy conference in Bali today and then heading home tomorrow. Had a great trip to Indonesia.
Was also in Malaysia and met with Paul Jones on the educational initiative.
See you next week.
Jm
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

I can think of several folks for you to toss that wrench at!
This email is UNCLASSIFIED
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

You have the points for the Motho meeting (what Sen Mitchell handed you today). Not sure if you got the non-paper — it
is being faxed to your house tonight.
 --- 

When is it coming?
 --- 

Dan should've sent it.
 --- 

See traffic b/I
I think this is - I think this may be
That said, you can have a longer process on this for folks to feel heard.
But in name of intellectual honesty,
See b/I - from bottom up.
Cdm
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Can I call you
 --- 

You have agreed
Ellen is making last argument
I want you to know that is coming in case you want to do that.
Cdm
 --- 

We have that two, but again
Jake was talking to
Cdm
 --- 

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence *En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:00 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:00 am MEETING w/ISRAELI CHIEF NEGOTIATOR YITZHAK MOLHO
10:00 am Secretary's Outer Office
10:00 am WEEKLY MEETING w/REGIONAL BUREAU ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:30 am Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
10:30 am MEETING w/SAVE THE CHILDREN BOARD CHAIR ANNE MULCAHY
10:55 am Secretary's Outer Office *Official photo.
10:55 am PRE-BRIEF w/TOM COUNTRYMAN
11:00 am Secretary's Office
11:00 am MEETING w/ALBANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER EDMOND HAXHINASTO
11:30 am Secretary's Conference Room *Camera spray at top in Treaty Room.
11:30 am OFFICE TIME
1:00 pm Secretary's Office
1:00 pm MEETING w/NIGERIAN FOREIGN MINISTER HENRY (MEIN AJUMOGOBIA
1:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo at top in East Hall.
1:30 pm PRESS PRE-BRIEF
1:35 pm Secretary's Office
1:35 pm JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/NIGERIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
1:55 pm HENRY ODEIN AJUMOGOBIA Treaty Room
2:20 pm MEETING w/U.S. AMBASSADOR TO CHINA JON HUNTSMAN
2:50 pm Secretary's Office
3:00 pm DROP-BY THE FULBRIGHT FOREIGN LANGUAGE TEACHING
3:10 pm ASSISTANT MID-YEAR CONFERENCE Dean Acheson Auditorium
3:15 pm OFFICE TIME
4:15 pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm MEETING ON ENTREPRENEURSHIP
5:00 pm Secretary's Outer Office
5:00 pm MEETING w/STATE DEPARTMENT AFFINITY GROUPS
6:00 pm D Conference Room *Official photo.
7:20 pm DEPART State Department *En route 1789
7:30 pm ARRIVE 1789
7:30 pm PRIVATE DINNER*
9:00 pm 1789
9:00 pm DEPART 1789 *En route Private Residence
9:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
FYI:
6:30 pm BLAIR HOUSE HOLIDAY RECEPTION
8:30 pm Blair House *Note: Reception runs from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm
###
 --- 

1.4(D)
I would love
I've made it to Luxor for Mrs. Mubatak's conference on trafficking. She has gathered all the key stakeholders for this. If
you have a minute, you might I'm now on my way with the Minister on Families to a renunciation of FGM
ceremony by a conservative village. Mrs M has been responsible for so much social progress. 40 clerics have been
arrested for registering child marriages in so-called temporary marriages of children to old Gulf men who pay off their
poor parents.
-----
 --- 

http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/dec/23/bitter-new-washington/
The New York Review of Books
In the Bitter New Washington
December 23, 2010
•
;izaibeth O w
Of course Obama should have gotten out of Washington more and listened to people, not just talked at them; and, as
Walter Mondale said recently, he should have gotten rid of "those idiot boards"—the TelePrompters on which the great
orator has been strangely dependent and which divide him from his audiences. Last year, a friend of mine was invited to a
Hanukkah party that the Obamas gave for prominent Jews (a group with whom there had been tensions), and after the
Obamas descended the grand stairway, they stood in the foyer briefly; the President made a few remarks and shook a
few hands, and back up the stairs they went. No mingling.
In their first two years, the Obamas have seemed a bit tone-deaf: there were too many vacations while people were
hurting, especially Michelle's extravagant trip to Spain. (I'm as interested in Michelle's clothes as the next woman but at
the same time think she and her staff are too focused on her looking smashing, which she does. Her wardrobe seems
quite extensive for these troubled times.)
Barack Obama's personality has been much mulled over in the past two years, but it seems inescapable that his high self-
esteem often slides over the thin line to arrogance, which trickles down (with some exceptions) to much of his staff, some
of whom are downright rude to all but a chosen few. °barna has seemed uninterested in anyone but his immediate group,
and three of the four members of his immediate circle--Jarrett, Robert Gibbs, David Axelrod—had had no experience in
governing. The fourth, Rahm Emanuel, expressed himself with such flippancy, arrogance, and overuse of the F-word that
he offended not just members of Congress but also would-be allies of the President.
Vice President Joe Bider), who is liked on Capitol Hill, was virtually shut out of the dealings with people in Congress in the
first two years—"I can handle them," Obama told Biden—but Biden is now expected to be given a larger role as part of the
White House's new determination to "reach out." (A few months ago highly placed members of the staff also swore they
would "reach out," but that seemed to last for just a few days.) One of the oddest aspects of Obama's persona is that
someone who seems so confident has insisted thus far in having people around him with whom he is said to be
"comfortable."
For example, Torn Donilon, his recently appointed national security adviser (a promotion from his role as deputy), is by all
accounts a capable man but is no one's idea of a serious strategic thinker. The explanation I was given for Donilon's
being given his new position was that "the President is comfortable with him." Just as Obama is described as pleased with
himself, he has been treated with hero worship by much of his staff. After all, he had taken on the formidable Clintons,
and, against the expectation of almost all the pundits and the experts, he had beaten them. Why should he listen to those
who had doubted him? A common complaint about the Obama White House in the first two years has been that there
were no "grown-ups" around, people who knew more about governing and who would tell Obama that he was wrong.
When people tried to suggest someone who should be brought in, that person was rejected as "not one of ours." Joe
Biden is said to argue with Obama on issues, such as Afghanistan, but not to get into the management of the White
House....
Those who supported Obama in 2008 expected him to be able to move public opinion, to get people to follow him. The
fact that the Obama White House has been so poor at "messaging" baffles even his strongest supporters. In fact, he had
no overall message. As Winston Churchill put it, there was no theme to his pudding. When I asked a White House aide
about this, he pointed to what had been billed as a "major speech on the economy," at Georgetown University in April
2009. But the speech was utterly forgettable—and forgotten. One ally attributes this problem to the inexperience of both
Obama and his top staff. An ally says, "You can't leave a message if you don't have a strategy and you don't know where
you're going." Another says, "They had something that worked in the campaign but didn't work in the White House."
Thus, Obama didn't see the need to explain what he was doing. His 2010 campaign themes seemed to wander all over
the place: Stanley Greenberg, a pollster and former aide to Bill Clinton, said that Obama's oft-used theme, that we
shouldn't go back to the Bush days, actually tested negatively, because people didn't believe that the country was making
economic, progress.
So Obama's biggest failure was not to be the leader that so many expected him to be. The jubilation that surrounded his
swearing-in may have gone to his head, while the celebrants overlooked that there were plenty of people out there who
were not overjoyed at the advent of a black president, or even a Democrat. Obama was, apparently in his own estimation,
so smart and so adored that he seems to have felt no need to explain—and explain again—to the country what he was
doing and to take the country along with him. This failure to put his programs across came up a few times in the 2010
campaign....
More than once, people in town hall meetings told him that they were behind him but were having great trouble trying to
defend or explain his agenda. In a backyard gathering on October 21 he made the most awkward reply of those I heard:
"Our attitude was that we just had to get the policies right and we didn't always think about making sure we got the
advertising properly about what was going on." Advertising. (When I mentioned this to a Democratic senator who was
generally supportive of Obama, this ordinarily polite man responded, "Bullocks! What policies?")
The risk-averse Obama had left it to Congress to write the big bills such as on the economic stimulus and health care
(with strong participation by White House aides). But he kept up this line of defense all the way through to his pathetic
press conference on the day after the election. In these comments, Obama gave away the devastating fact that he didn't
really understand the role of the president as leader. A friend of the Obama administration said to me, "Their definition of
governing is passing bills." Someone else relatively close to the White House explained that since Obama had been so
criticized for being "arrogant" and "aloof," he had to eat large portions of humble pie. ("And I take responsibility for that,"
Obama said again and again.)
 --- 

McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA@state.gov>
Thursday, December 9, 2010 8:11 PM
RE: LA Times/Laura King - Afghan TV police drama delivers message with zest
In Singapore now heading back this afternoon. Bali Forum interesting although some of the speeches (Iran) were
predictably tedious. No wiki mentions anywhere. Remind me to tell you about the Timor slamming of MCC.
The joys of foreign travel.
See you Monday.
jm
 --- 

I forgot to tell you- I fixed in your blackberry today. You had an outdated address for her.
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi, 21st century engagement. Still a work in progress but off to a good start. Enjoy!
Jm
 --- 

Sigh
Fyi
 --- 

will move saeb
Bibi confirmed 12:30. Does that give u enough time?
 --- 

Snowe Supports Senate Ratification of New
START Treaty
December 10, 2010
WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Senator Olympia). Snowe (R-Maine) released the following statement in support of Senate
ratification of the New START Treaty:
"The New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as New START, was signed by the United States and Russia on April
8th and transmitted for the advice and consent of the Senate on May 13th of this year. Since then, the U.S. Senate has
held 18 hearings and as a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I have worked with my colleagues to
scrutinize this agreement and ensure any classified matters are properly vetted. Much has changed since the original
START was first negotiated in 1991, and as a result I have supported efforts to make certain that questions regarding our
ability to verify Russian compliance with the Treaty's limits, to develop and deploy effective missile defenses, and to
modernize our nuclear weapons complex, have been satisfactorily resolved.
"I am confident that New START will provide predictability in our relationship with Russia and thus enhance global
stability, and most importantly, our national security. Therefore, if the Majority moves to consider New START under a
framework that allows for sufficient debate and amendments, I intend to support the Resolution of Advice and Consent."
 --- 


 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, December 11,2010 12:08 PM
Fw: LEAHY Calls For Freeze Of Funds To Haiti's Central Government And Of Travel Visas
For The Government's Leaders
Traffic b/I explains
 --- 

Government And Of Travel Visas For The Government's Leaders
I am currently out of the office and unavailable before 6:00pm EST today, December 10. If you need immediate
assistance, please contact Nora Toiv, toivnf@state.gov, or Joanne Laszczych, laszczychj@state.gov, at 202-647-5548.
If this is an emergency, please call the Operations Center and have them reach out to me.
thank you.
cdm
 --- 

STATEMENT BY PHILIP J. CROWLEY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRS
Update on Ambassador Richard Holbrooke
Ambassador Richard Holbrooke was admitted to George Washington University Hospital yesterday. This morning,
doctors completed surgery to repair a tear in his aorta. He is in critical condition and has been joined by his family.
# # #
 --- 

STATEMENT BY SECRETARY CLINTON
The Cancun Agreements
Over the last year, the United States has worked with our international partners to build on the progress achieved at the
climate change conference in Copenhagen. We have pressed for substantive steps that would advance the vision of the
Copenhagen Accord. This month we joined the nations of the world in Cancun for a new round of talks aimed at
mobilizing common action to meet the shared global challenge of climate change.
Today I am pleased to announce that we secured the Cancun Agreements, a set of balanced international decisions
under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) which represent meaningful progress in
our global response to climate change.
These agreements advance each of the core elements of the Copenhagen Accord: They anchor the Accord's mitigation
pledges; build on a system of transparency with substantial detail and content of International Consultations and
Analysis which will provide confidence that a country's pledges are being carried out; launch a new Green Climate Fund;
create a framework to reduce deforestation in developing countries; establish a technology mechanism; and Setup a
framework and committee to will promote international cooperation and action on adaptation.
The Cancun Agreements represent a balanced and significant step forward. In the days and months ahead, the United
States will work with our friends and partners to keep the world focused on this urgent challenge and to continue
building on this progress.
###
 --- 


 --- 

See NI
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, December 11,2010 1:36 PM
Fw: S is calling Leahy today - thx for all the help; advise if a diff no for him today
 --- 

For The Government's Leaders
Interesting
 --- 

One START update: new START remains in the mix for next week, but when it will be fit into the schedule is not firmly
decided. On Monday at 3.00 pm, the Senate will vote on cloture on the tax bill. They expect to obtain cloture. If the
opponents require the use of all 30 hours, post-cloture, they will finish the tax bill on Tuesday evening. It is possible
that new START will then be the next order of business. But that hasn't been decided yet. They could turn to the
omnibus or back to don't ask don't tell as a stand alone measure. but we are still in the mix, and will have to keep
pushing with Reid, Durbin, Schumer etc.
 --- 

On the first, we have shared with them all of our intel on likely
Republican votes. I think they know we are now well north of 67 votes. On the second, we have confirmed with the
parliamentarian that we can move from the treaty to the appropriations bill by consent or with a simple majority vote.
So if we begin start on tuesday night there is a way to get both measures done by the weekend. We will keep working it
with Reid staff and floor staff over the weekend. If you have any reason to speak with Durbin (he's on sunday shows) or
schumer, I'm sure that would help too.
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Sunday, December 12, 2010 11:07 AM
H
*ake.sullivan B6
B51
Jim is seeking your guidance on whether
Just wanted to confirm.
 --- 

Here's a draft of your introductory letter for the QDDR. Jake and Anne-Marie have weighed in.
One question that's been raised is whether
Thanks,
Josh
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

I'm so devastated
Mrs Mubarak has done a magnificent job with the conference. She asked me to go to a couple of the schools she has
renovated in the poorest neighborhoods of Luxor as part of her schools' program. They are state of the art and become
magnets for redevelopment. She sends her best. You have been mentioned with great affection repeatedly here by so
many. I also went to a huge community renunciation of FGM in a rural area -- some 2000 villagers with men speaking
eloquently about why this practice would be no more. This is another great effort they are making here to end FGM
through community education. So amidst bad news, there is also the good. We also managed to dodge the latest
wikileaks story here. Heading back tomw.
 --- 

Two notes on reporters who'll be in our small package today:
1) Laura Brown, Australian citizen who writes for Harpars Bazaar - she's embarking on a piece on you
2) Indira Lakshaman of Bloomberg is back to work after
 --- 

Fyi Classified by DAS, A/GIS, DoS on 08/27/2015 — Class:
 --- 

Can we discuss?
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

this
 --- 


 --- 

He was larger than life in everything he did -- from AfPak, the UN job, the Balkans - even to planning his annual Xmas
party for you. It will be hard to imagine not having him in our midst.
 --- 

OMG — I just opened this!
 --- 

Huma Abedin <Huma@clintonemail.com>
Monday, December 13, 2010 10:27 PM
H; 'abedinh@state.gov'
Re: want to stop
He
 --- 

Are still here and so appreciative for all you did tonight and over the last several days.
You gave many the ability to push through.
XO
Cdm
 --- 

According to the Reid staff, they will tentatively start the Treaty on Wednesday and stay on it through COB Thursday.
Then File cloture on the CR. It takes consent to stay on START while we wait for the CR cloture petition to ripen, which
would be Saturday w/o consent. So at least two days on the Treaty, at a minimum, and possibly more. But, the good
news, is that it appears that we are starting the Treaty, and will go back to it after the FY11 funding issues are resolved.
We will re-double our efforts to support the SRAP team
and do whatever you need in the coming days on
Af/Pak and beyond.
 --- 

My flight takes off at 8 so call before if you have a minute.
CDM
 --- 


 --- 

sbwhoeop
Tuesday, December 14, 2010 9:35 AM
can't say how sad I am about Holbrooke; fitful last night. xo Sid
 --- 

Death of Holbrookell.y,J3_4.:5 _043.) ,:u1.01 ,,..01L.4,13 6.11 ,
4 ydAlo i.5.9j4.111b3 /
See below (keep scrolling down to the English).
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

on: 12/13/2025
From
To: Verveer, Melanne S
Sent: Tue Dec 14 21:21:04 2010
Subject: Re: Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) published its statement
B1
1.4(D)
Dear Melanne:
B1
1.4(
Sent wirelessly via BlackBerry
B6
B1
1.4(D)
 --- 

That was what lona had when she went in to talk to u.
But that's changed now obviously.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Madame Secretary, I wanted to flag for you that we have just sent Huma a new draft of your town hall speech that
reflects considerable changes over night from Anne-Marie and others. We are continuing to polish it but wanted you to
have a chance to see its new direction.
Dan
 --- 

It's at the bottom of page 1:
...Ambassador Richard Holbrooke. This is a huge loss for our Department and our country, and we are dedicating this
first QDDR to his memory. Because every day, I see many of the qualities that made Richard great ...
 --- 

I will be at a USGLC breakfast doing qddr so won't be at morning meeting. You will see speech, which is very hard to
write given magnitude of report coupled w/ own hall setting. We have aimed it really at press, to try to focus them as
precisely as possible in what we want their stories to be, so it's important to get those key message out. But I would just
urge you also to speak from the heart -- you know what this is reallly about better than anyone and if your passion for
making this happen and commitment to getting it done come through, it will frame the entire exercise. This is your only
chance to speak to the press about 14 months of work until we relaunch in January. There is too much going on to make
headlines, but we want there to be positive press saying you are ahead of the curve (and the new Congress) in making
govt work better. AM
 --- 

Passed the Senate 81 to 19. START vote on motion to proceed should be at 2:15.
 --- 

-^
 --- 

Traffic below from bottom up
 --- 

fyi
Forwarded message
 --- 

Agree — he did all the writing and integrating in the first instance and stayed up over the last 48 hours to integrate
everything.
 --- 

Nice
Forgot to tell you about our harrowing circling and attempted landings last night ...
 --- 


 --- 

Worth a read.
 --- 

The unsigned editorials will appear in all of Bloomberg's online and print media properties — including Bloomberg
Businessweek, Bloomberg.corn and the nearly 300,000 financial data terminals leased to Wall Street traders and
businesses around the world. It will be run by two distinguished voices: James P. Rubin, a former assistant secretary of
state under Bill Clinton, and David Shipley, editor of The New York Times Op-Ed page.
got
December 15, 2010
loomberg to Publish Editorials
By ,IERE-:EviY PE.TEP.S
Being mayor of New York City would be a large enough platform for just about anyone. But apparently not for Michael R.
The mayor's company, 3loomber,
,3 L.P., said on Wednesday that it would begin publishing editorials across its vast media
enterprise in an effort to broaden the company's influence on national affairs. And though Mr. Bloomberg has an
agreement with the city to have no involvement in the "day-to-day operations" of his company, the endeavor, called
Bloomberg View, is intended to channel his personal philosophy and worldview.
"I think it's very important that everyone understands that our editorial page is going to be, for sure, consistent with the
values and beliefs of the founder — even if he happens to be mayor of New York City," said Matthew Winkler, the editor in
chief of Bloomberg News. "I fully expect us in our Bloomberg View always to reflect those values. In fact, I want people to
come away from reading the Bloomberg View infused with those beliefs and values."
The effort presents a host of conflict-of-interest questions for the mayor. The new venture provides the mayor with yet
another potent communications apparatus — one that carries his name and imprimatur — to sound off on issues that
collide with his job as mayor, his corporate interests and his expanding philanthropic empire.
Bloomberg L.P. executives said they would not shy away from publishing editorials on issues in which Mr. Bloomberg has
a direct interest as mayor, like education, public health and environmental policy. Mr. Winkler said the editorials would not
avoid such issues but would disclose the mayor's involvement when warranted.
Though Mr. Bloomberg will not have a hand in conceiving and writing the editorials, he is likely to offer feedback from time
to time before they are published, Mr. Winkler said.
"I think that there's a very good chance that's going to happen," he said, referring to Mr. Bloomberg's occasional
involvement. It is unclear whether that level of involvement is permitted under his agreement with the city to remain at
arm's length from the company.
A spokesman for the mayor, Stu Loeser, said the mayor was allowed limited involvement in his agreement with the city.
"Weighing in from time to time is consistent with his being the majority shareholder of the company he founded," he said.
As someone whose presidential ambitions are the source of endless speculation, acquiring the platform of an editorial
page is certain to draw more attention to Mr. Bloomberg's plans. (On Sunday, Mr. Bloomberg ruled out a run for
president.)
The unsigned editorials will appear in all of Bloomberg's online and print media properties — including Bloomberg
Businessweek, Bloomberg.com and the nearly 300,000 financial data terminals leased to Wall Street traders and
businesses around the world. It will be run by two distinguished voices: James P. Rubin, a former assistant secretary of
state under Bill Clinton, and David Shipley, editor of The New York Times Op-Ed page.
Opinion and commentary have not typically been areas of focus for Bloomberg, with its just-the-facts approach. In fact,
the mayor has complained about the corrosive effect of the 24-hour news cycle and overheated political commentary in
the blogosphere.
But company leaders, including Mr. Bloomberg, who has been aware of the project since it was conceived more than two
years ago, saw an opportunity to extend their influence.
For a firm that has made no secret of its ambitions to become the most influential media company in the world, starting an
editorial operation is the latest effort to propel it beyond its core mission as a financial news service.
The notion of media barons using editorials to shape public opinion and policy according to their personal views is an old
one in American journalism. William Randolph Hearst, for example, often wrote front-page editorials for his newspapers.
Mr. Bloomberg, it would seem, is casting himself in that mold, though there are no plans for him to begin writing signed
editorials. For now, he is content letting his trusted deputies speak for him.
"He's accepting and embracing the privilege of a media mogul," said David Nasaw, a professor of history at the City
University of New York Graduate Center, who wrote a biography of Hearst. "This is what we all do. We try to persuade the
rest of the world we are right. Of course we don't have the vehicles to do so. The rich have the vehicles to do so."
Mr. Winkler said: "There's a huge opportunity here for Bloomberg L.P. and Bloomberg News to seize the day, literally
seize the day by bringing wisdom to events as they unfold. And one can't always do that with the best result with
reporting."
"That certainly is a benefit to the founder of the company, the man. But it is also a huge opportunity for Bloomberg, the
company, that it should take advantage of," Mr. Winkler added.
Bloomberg L.P. acquired BusinessWeek last year, giving the 29-year-old company a print product with a long legacy of
accomplishment.
Bloomberg is in the midst of an expansion in Washington. With a service called Bloomberg Government, an operation that
will eventually employ 300 journalists and analysts, the company will sell, for $5,700 a year, information about government
services and contracts to lobbyists and others with business interests in the nation's capital.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Thursday, December 16, 2010 9:28 AM
FW: From Pakistan
 --- 

THE NBC/YORKER
December 14, 2010
The Envoy
Posted by Hendrik Hertzberg
Last night, as I was unlocking my bike on a windswept Greenwich Village sidewalk after leaving a holiday party, a friend
approached, cell phone in hand. A few minutes earlier, she and I had been inside, chatting happily amid the buzz and warmth of
a holiday party. Now she had tears in her eyes. "Richard Holbrooke died," she said.
Notwithstanding the hospital bulletins since he fell ill on Saturday—critical condition, damaged aorta, emergency surgery—this
sudden, awful ending was a shock, because Richard Holbrooke was such an astounding volcano of vitality. Everything about
him was large: his physical size, including the ultimate "in your face" face, a face like a Times Square billboard; his buzz-saw
voice, a highly expressive instrument, equally adept at piano (a side-of-the-mouth, gossipy wisecrack, often pleasingly nasty)
and forte (a high-decibel outburst of anger or indignation, almost always calculated for effect); his appetites (for experience, for
danger, for praise, for power, for fun); and his ambitions (for himself, for his beliefs, for the United States, for the world). He
was no doe-eyed peacenik, but as a diplomat he labored long and hard to seek alternatives to war and ways to end particular
wars. He was sentimental about his own unsentimentality, romantic about his own tough-guy realism.
Unlike my tearful informant, who had known Holbrooke as a family friend since she was a little girl, I was acquainted with him
in the casual way of many journalists and editors. He was a peer as well as a "source," a prolific and forceful writer whose
favorite venues, The New Republic and The New Yorker, happened to be the places where I've spent my working life. He was
gregarious and fond of big, splashy black-tie evenings. The last time I saw him was six weeks ago, on November 1st, at the
New York Public Library's "Literary Lions" celebration. At the pre-dinner reception, where he would normally have been on
his feet, looming large, he repaired to a folding chair behind a little table and let his wife, Kati Marton, bring the party to him.
At sixty-nine he was tired—that much was obvious—but he was as sharp and voluble as ever. He still had plenty to do.
Not long after Holbrooke achieved his greatest diplomatic triumph by negotiating the 1995 end to the Balkan wars, I asked him
if he liked Warren Zevon's wonderful song "The Envoy." He said he'd never heard of it. The next day I sent him a CD. After
that, he mentioned it every single time I've seen him, up to and including that NYPL gala, saying he puts it on, loud, when he
needs a lift. And no wonder: his life was a drama, and he liked it that way.
If the Supreme Court had allowed the votes to be counted in 2000, then the Envoy, almost certainly, would have become the
Secretary of State, and the next decade would have unfolded very differently. As it is, Holbrooke has left a stronger, more
positive, more creative mark on history than all but a few of those who have held that post. He certainly did not die of a broken
heart—Kati Marton saw to that—but it was surely the ghastly, impossible demands of his last, impossible assignment that
brought on the rending of his aorta. He died for his country as surely as any soldier. And his deathbed words may turn out to be
the most important he ever spoke.
Photograph: Marco Di Lauro/Getty Images
Read more
http://www. newyo rker. corn/on line/b log s/hend ri khe rtzberq/20 10/1 2/ho lb rooke. htm 1?p ri ntab le=true#ixzz
1 8HjNL4kn
 --- 

Hi. Sorry I haven't had a chance to see you, but I did want you to hear directly from me that it was a great result in
Cancun. Way beyond any expectations. Many challenges ahead, but a very good day for us and a great day for Mexico.
Have a very happy holiday if I don't see you before. Best, Todd
 --- 

B6
I assume you saw this by now -- if not, it's worth a read.
Forwarded message
 --- 


 --- 

Big change of plans in the Senate. Senator Reid just announced that he was no longer going to move forward with the
omnibus appropriations bill. Instead, he filed cloture motions on the repeal of Don't Ask, Don't Tell and the DREAM
Act.
Those petitions will ripen on Saturday. So it looks like the Senate will be again considering the new START Treaty
tomorrow. We should know the starting time shortly.
 --- 


 --- 

See below.
 --- 

