XO
 --- 

Colleagues, The Operations Center would like to call your attention to the following report received from Embassy
Dakar. DCM Jay Smith, Embassy Dakar reports a possible forced change of leadership in Guinea-Bissau. Reports indicate
that:
• Prime Minister Gomes and Chief of Defense Zamora lnduta have been arrested; • Early indications are the
deputy chief of defense may be responsible for the arrests; • The former Navy Chief of Staff has been "liberated"
from the UN compound where he had been a refugee; • The president reportedly remains in office and it is unclear
if he is aligned with those arrested or those seeking to take power; • There are no official Americans in country and
approximately 12 private resident Americn citizens; Post is checking on their safety.
 --- 

I'm going to call today to get more info and only way to make this work is to do on front end of talinn so u get back for
engagement party. But do u have any immediate reaction to the suggestion?
 --- 

Nice work Jake and Nora.
cdm
 --- 

Time Magazine is including Nancy Pelosi in their 100 Issue, and as you know from writing for others and being written
about, they ask other notables to write the accompanying text. They are inviting you to write the text that accompanies
Pelosi's
We all think you should do, the timing allows you to write a bit about the importance of health care.
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Thursday, April 1, 2010 3:37 PM
Mills, Cheryl D
Fw: THANKS to Team Pledge Data
See bottom of message re the firsts.
These were innovations we pushed (particularly use of web for real time display of pledges and what initially was
described by those who did not like my idea as pay to play (or in this instance as I argued - it was pay to have a priority
speaking slot as those who did not have a pledge would get to speak, just not until the end).
Nice addition to our innovation and tech storyline.
Cdm
 --- 

Purpose of Call: Foreign Minister Nkoana-Mashabane has asked to speak with you about the upcoming vote at the
World Bank on the Medupi Power Plant in South Africa.
 --- 


 --- 

Jim is very agitated by some maneuverings related to the NPR. I should bring you up to speed on it when you have a
moment.
 --- 

There was a garble on the middle east meeting. It's not chiefly on Mitchell travel or related issues. It's chiefly on how to
deal with the nuclear issue in the context of the upcoming summit. Though with the players at the table...
 --- 

They know, but she is not on the invite list. I will work on that.
 --- 

More on tech component
 --- 

He is willing to take your call anytime between 9am and 4pm. What time would u like to do? Points below
The Secretary's Call Sheet for
Algerian Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia (AH-med ooh-YA-hee-ah)
 --- 

Assume you remember her
 --- 

Gibbs and Pi will/have deployed these:
• Some of the comments made yesterday by President Karzai are troubling and a cause for real concern.
• Together with our international partners, the United States is making great sacrifices and investing substantial
resources to defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies, and to create opportunities for the Afghan people. As
President Obama has said, we have vital security interests in the region, and we are committed to helping
Afghanistan become strong, stable and prosperous.
• We would reiterate the commitments that both Presidents made during their visit last weekend. We are
discussing this with President Karzai and his Administration and we are seeking clarification of his remarks.
 --- 

Conference Summary - Rough.docx; Note to S on Karzai 1 Apr Press Conf to send.docx;
Tab A Karzai 1 April Press Conference Summary - Rough.docx
Importance: High
Attached are materials on Karzai that RCH has discussed with you.
 --- 

If Karl sees him at 2 tomorrow, that's 5:30 am here. So if you called first thing our time tomorrow, you'd follow him.
 --- 

— Declassify on: 04/02/2025
Readout of conversation with Omar Zalchilwal, Afghan Minister of Finance
April 2, 2010
Barnett R. Rubin
B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
Barnett R. Rubin
B6
 --- 

Cc: Abedin, Huma
 --- 

I think it's only 815 there now.
 --- 

See the piece below on defamation of religion. Not bad.
http: I /www.economist.com/world/international/displavstorv.cfm?story id=15833005
Religion and human rights
The limits of freedom and faith
Mar 31st 2010
From The Economist print edition
Opponents of a bid by Muslim states to "protect religion" claim a small success
How dare you call us blasphemers?
IT DOES not happen often: Christian lobbyists, the sort who favour prayer in American classrooms and
crucifixes in Italian ones, lining up on the same side as secularists who battle to curb religion's role in the
public square. But in both those camps there has been some quiet satisfaction after a recent vote at the
United Nations. Not over the outcome, but over the slim margin of defeat.
On March 25th the Human Rights Council (HRC), a Geneva-based UN agency which often exasperates its
Western members, voted by 20 votes to 17, with eight abstentions, for a text that lists the "defamation of
religion" as an infringement of liberty. Nothing amazing there: the Organisation of the Islamic Conference
(OIC), which groups 56 mainly Muslim states (plus Palestine), has been working to push resolutions of
that kind through the General Assembly and other UN bodies since 2005. But the margin was the smallest
ever, and opponents think there could be a good chance of defeating a "defamation" motion next time one
comes around.
The OIC's idea is to establish the principle that faiths need protection, just as individuals do. It denies any
sinister intention (see article). And to some ears, the OIC's effort sounds like harmless UN-speak, but
nothing more. (The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, a congressionally
mandated body, has noted a logical flaw: defamation means harming the reputation of a living person or
entity: that implies that one can't defame an idea or a religious founder who is no longer, at least
physically, alive on earth.)
But critics of the OIC campaign, who include atheists, Christians and indeed some Muslims, say the
"defamation" idea is worse than hot air: far from protecting human rights, it emboldens countries that use
blasphemy laws to criminalise dissent. What encourages these critics is that more countries seem to be
coming around to their view. Mexico, Uruguay, Argentina, Zambia and South Korea voted against the
latest resolution. Brazil criticised the text but abstained.
Deeper still inside the UN's bureaucracy, another battle over religion rages—and the stakes could be even
higher. An "ad hoc committee" is mulling ways to amend or extend the UN convention on racial
discrimination. Certain states want language that would fuse the categories of race and faith; some want a
new convention, or a protocol to the existing one.
For secularists (in the broad sense of people, including believers, who oppose the idea of faith having
privileged access to power), all this is alarming. Non-binding resolutions against defamation are bad
enough; a UN treaty on race-plus-religion would have legal force, at least for its signatories, and give
heart to theocrats.
At the HRC's latest discussion of this effort in March, the Algerian who oversees the project was keen to
plough ahead. But countries like Switzerland, Japan, Mexico, Argentina and France retorted that it would
be better to enforce the existing UN norms than dream up new ones. Efforts to widen the racism accord
will resume, with a new chairman, late this year—but critics are relieved to have stalled it. Still, would-be
theocrats may now focus harder on adding to the racism charter, because they face a real risk of being
defeated over defamation, in the view of Roy Brown, Geneva spokesman for the International Humanist
and Ethical Union.
Meanwhile a Christian-inspired NGO, the European Centre for Law and Justice, has been denouncing the
abuse of blasphemy laws in many OIC member states. How fair is their point? It is an easy case to make,
for example, over Pakistan.
Some 41 complaints of blasphemy were registered by police in Pakistan last year, says that country's
independent Human Rights Commission. In theory, blasphemy is punishable by death—a penalty that has
been handed down but never carried out. Worst-hit by the law are minorities like Christians and Ahmadis,
a group whose claim to be Muslim is rejected by the Pakistani state. Although abuse of the law is less rife
now than in the 1980s, when an Islamist general tightened up the rules, the law is still invoked in disputes
(over property, say) that have nothing to do with faith.
"The most vulnerable people, that is religious minorities, continue to be charged with
blasphemy," said Ali Dayan Hasan, a researcher at Human Rights Watch, a campaign group.
"But are people convicted? No. Rarely. It is used as an instrument of political and social
coercion."
When convictions occur, they lead to long jail terms; and pre-trial detention can last for years. Pakistan's
parliament is revising the constitution but it has left intact the religious bits, despite a vow by the ruling
party to review the blasphemy laws. (Indonesia too has stepped back from a move to liberalise its
blasphemy regime.)
On Pakistani streets, the law has dire effects. In January 2009, in a village in Punjab province, five
Ahmadis, a labourer and four children, were charged with blasphemy. They had supposedly written
"Prophet Muhammad" on the wall of a mosque toilet. The children were behind bars for nearly six months
till the charge was quashed.
And last September a young Pakistani Christian was accused of throwing part of the Koran down a drain.
It seems that his real crime, however, was affection for a Muslim woman. A mob torched a church, and
many Christians had to flee. He was taken to jail, where he died a few days later. His family alleged
torture; the authorities claimed suicide. There was mayhem at the funeral and the country's Christians
(see picture) were appalled. In some places, it is not the "defamation" of faith that threatens rights but
measures that supposedly defend it.
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Friday, April 2, 2010 12:38 PM
H
FW: Karzai points
These are the points in circulation now for comment. Understand Eikenberry is reaching out to speak with you. He has
this draft.
 --- 

Cc:
Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Friday, April 2, 2010 12:57 PM
Abedin, Huma
 --- 

I would simply reiterate the need for a statement *FAST* and say that the embassy can follow up. This will help both of
us.
 --- 

Here is what I'm proposing:
 --- 

One thing I missed:
Currency deferral decision likely tonight.
 --- 

03-23-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips March 24, 2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue
Press Clips 03-25-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-26-2010.doc; Strategic
Dialogue Press Clips 03-27-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-28-2010.doc;
Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-29-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips
03-30-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-31-2010.doc
FYI, generally positive coverage.
im
 --- 

Cc: Abedin, Huma
Happy to chat at your convenience
 --- 

I will be outo f the office through Monday, April 5th. I will be checking e-mail periodically. If you need immediate
assistance, please call 202-647-9572.
 --- 

Will do
Same to you!
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

I will prepare for Tuesday. Happy Easter!
 --- 

Happy Easter!
AM
Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA@state.gov>
Sunday, April 4, 2010 10:07 AM
Sullivan, Jacob J; Mills, Cheryl D
On a day of easter peace ...
 --- 


 --- 

Yep
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

I think we're fine on this.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Monday, April 5, 2010 6:30 PM
H: UK election being called. Sid
Gordon is going to call the election tomorrow for May 6. I'm going to go over for that week. Sid
Labour c.uIi win most seats at eneral
election, poll shows
Guardian/ICM poll reveals gap between two main parties at four points — the closest in an ICM poll for almost two years
• Julian Glover
• aardian.co.uk, Monday 5 April 2010 19.02 BST
• Article history
Lbr still has a fighting chance of winning the most seats in the general election, according to a Guardian/1CM poll
published today.
The findings suggest Tory hopes of a defining breakthrough have been overplayed, with the gap between the two main
parties now at just four points — the closest in an 1CM poll for almost two years.
Labour support has climbed four points to 33% since an ICM poll carried out for the Guardian last week. Conservative
backing has dropped one since then to 37% — Labour's best ICM rating since December 2008 and the Tories' worst since
February.
On a uniform national swing, these figures could leave Labour 30 seats short of an overall majority. Even if the Tories
perform better than average in marginal seats — as most people expect — David Cameron would struggle to establish a
secure parliamentary basis for power.
Either party could be left dependent on the fiber:a) Democrats, who are on 21% in the poll — down two from last week.
Despite that decline, the Lib Dems will be pleased by the strength of their position going into the election. The party has
been at or above 20% in seven of this year's 11 ICM polls.
Meanwhile support for other parties, which peaked last spring in the European elections, has fallen again to just 9%.
At the start of an election campaign likely to see more polling than ever before in British politics, today's figures will be
treated with caution unless confirmed by other surveys.
Some polls late last week suggested the Conservative lead had grown rather than shrunk, and research may have been
affected by the Easter holidays, when some voters would have been away from home. Yet the results suggest that
Labour's chances should not be written off, and events such as the leaders' debates could prove decisive in the coming
weeks.
Today's poll suggests 60% of people are planning to watch at least one debate, with 29% saying they plan to watch all
three. Only 39% of voters said they would not watch any of them.
The ICM survey also asked voters whether they might switch away from their first choice party and, if so;who they might
back instead.
Labour and Tory support is now equally solid. Overall, 71% of Labour supporters say they will definitely back Labour while
71% of Tories also say they will stick with their first choice party.
Lib Dems, however, are less loyal — only 52% are sure they will end up giving Nick Clegg their vote. That leaves just over
a quarter of each main party's supporters considering backing another party.
The proportion of Lib Dems and ConservatIves. saying they might vote Labour instead has doubled since ICM last asked
this question earlier in the year. The ICM figures suggest the maximum potential vote for Labour and the Conservatives —
all their definite supporters, plus all potential switchers — is running neck and neck at 42%. The Lib Dem maximum is 28%.
Realistically, Labour is unlikely to beat its 2005 share of 36% and even today's poll suggesting it has shed only three
points since then will surprise many. Nonetheless, there is all to play for as the contest begins now.
•ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,001 adults aged 18 and over by telephone on 1-3 April 2010.
Interviews were conducted across the country, and the results weighted to the profile of all adults. 1CM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.
 --- 

Not for public acknowledgement but, as we have said, consistent engagement at the highest levels actually works.
Ibrahim is CEO of GEO and a major figure in Pakistani media circles.
 --- 

Yes, the agreement with Lavrov? Working on details today.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
 --- 

Will do.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Scretary of State
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

You should definitely read Ignatius this morning.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Just came in from ops. Will send more info as we get it.
The FAA Operations Center reports a Qatari passenger aboard United Airlines flight 663 attempted to light his shoes on
fire and was detained by Federal Air Marshals. The flight was en route to Denver from Reagan National. FAA believes
the man may have some diplomatic status.
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA©state.gov>
Thursday, April 8, 20104:23 PM
Slaughter, Anne-Marie
H; Mills, Cheryl D; Sullivan, Jacob J; DiMartino, Kitty; Douglas, Walter T; Verveer, Melanne
recognition of USG assistance/contributions.
We all agree that there is a need to dramatically increase the awareness level of USG assistance efforts around the
world. Following up on conversations with Melanne and others, I would like to suggest that we begin the effort by
bringing together a small group of people from inside and outside government to help us think this through. USAID
participation will be crucial. I'd be happy to organize this and/or co-host the event with you. Let me know what you
think.
 --- 


 --- 

McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA@state.gov>
Friday, April 9, 2010 6:54 AM
H.
Mills, Cheryl D; Sullivan, Jacob J
RE: recognition of USG assistance/contributions.
Will do. This is such a critical (and frustrating) issue that I want to try and start moving forward on it as soon as we can. I
know Raj wants to address this as well. I'd like to start off with a relatively small group of DoS and USAID reps, plus a
group top private sector brand and other ex erts. For exam .l
who is an incredible woman who is already helping me with youth engagement and who would B6
be terrific for this. In addition I'd like to reach out to people in the NGO and think tank community so we can get a broad
range of opinions.
Will keep you posted.
There is a difference of opinion within NEA that I am trying to sort out B5
but I will have something to you by next early week.
Finally, as I think you know,
I am working on a memo for you and Jim outlining the details.
im
 --- 

Didn't rec name - will get
 --- 

10:40 am ARRIVE State Department
10:45 am OFFICE TIME
11:30 am Secretary's Office
11:30 am PREP CALL w/TBD Secretary's Office
12:10 pm DEPART State Department *En route River Entrance, Pentagon
12:20 pm ARRIVE Pentagon
12:30 pm SUNDAY SHOW TAPINGS w/DEFENSE SECRETARY GATES
1:30 pm Secretary's Dining Room, 3E918
1:30 pm DEPART Pentagon *En route Andrews Air Force Base
1:55 pm ARRIVE Andrews Air Force Base
2:00 pm DEPART Andrews Air Force Base via Air Force Aircraft Tail #90404
En route Lexington, Kentucky
3:30 pm ARRIVE Louisville International Airport
3:35 pm DEPART Louisville International Airport
En route Papa John's Cardinal Stadium, University of Louisville
3:40 pm ARRIVE Papa John's Cardinal Stadium
3:45pm SPEECH AT THE MCCONNELL CENTER, UNIV. OF LOUISVILLE
5:20 pm Brown & Williamson Club *Papa John's Cardinal Stadium *Approx. 1100 ppl. attending.
5:25 pm DEPART University of Louisville
En route Louisville International Airport
5:30 pm ARRIVE Atlantic Aviation Terminal, Louisville International Airport
5:35 pm DEPART Louisville, Kentucky via Air Force Aircraft Tail #90404
En route White Plains, New York
7:05 pm ARRIVE Westchester County Airport, White Plains
7:15 pm DEPART Westchester County Airport *En route Private Residence
7:30 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 


 --- 

Here he is.
 --- 

Fyi traffic
 --- 

I don't know if you'll be speaking to Roza Otunboyeva, the interim leader in Kyrgyzstan, but if you do, it might be
interesting to mention that you know of her commitment to microcredit. She was instrumental in bringing FINCA to
Kyrgyzstan and when you made your trip there you saw what a difference it was making to lift up women and their
families. She also was her country's head of delegation to Beijing. She was foreign minister at the time and made a strong
statement about gender equality and the transformative power of microcredit. I think she had an overseas post when you
visited Kyrgyz so I don't think you met her.
I know it's a very complicated situation there now with our use of the base in potential jeopardy, but I thought this info
might be useful in some way assuming she manages to hold on.
I'm off to Lithuania, Russia and Egypt later today.
 --- 

From Lee b/I
 --- 

B/w noon and 1pm sun; also may call in one of windows today
 --- 

Fyi -- not sure of timing of your call.
Terrible news about Poland.
I'm on the ground and reachable at your convenience.
 --- 

Perhaps my Cuba question from last night was ill-timed!
 --- 

U ok with statement?
Statement by the Secretary
The Death of Polish President Kaczynski and His Delegation
I join President Obama in offering my deepest condolences to the people of Poland, to the Kaczynski family, and to the
families of all those killed in this tragedy. Lost alongside President Kaczynski and his wife were Polish leaders from
across the political spectrum, men and women who shaped and sped Poland's post-1989 democratic transformation and
were leading Poland into its promising future. The tragedy of these lives cut short will be felt deeply across the world,
but their legacy will live on in a free and flourishing Poland.
The United States stands with the Polish people in this difficult hour. Like the country he led, President Kaczynski was
one of America's most valued and trusted allies. He was well known in the United States as a champion for democracy
against an oppressive regime, a man whose journey took him from the Gdatisk Shipyards to the presidency of a free
people. President Kaczynski was an unstinting advocate for freedom and human rights not just in Poland, but around
the world. He will be long remembered and sorely missed.
The Polish people have endured more than their share of sorrow, but they have always shown resilience and resolve in
the face of adversity -- and I know they will pull- together in solidarity to grieve this loss.
My thoughts and prayers are with all the people of Poland today.
 --- 

Thx
 --- 

See below. Meeting with embassy folks now -- will report on that and dinner later.
 --- 

BlakeR2@State.gov
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

See below from Mitchell. Will send an email with thoughts on Kabul later tonight.
The following is a summary
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
B1
— Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 04/11/2030
 --- 

FYI - Boeing has made a significant number of military sales to European countries. Can get you more details.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

>; Casper de Villiers
>; eiman.zein-elabdin
; katiestanton
p, Rene Simons
<sawsanhassan1
RELEASE IN PART
B6
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH©state.gov>
Monday, April 12, 2010 9:20 AM
Fw: (AP) Northern Ireland picks justice minister in peace landmark
 --- 

I hope you are having someone keep a scrapbook!
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
 --- 

RELEASE IN FULL
See below — thoughts.
 --- 

8:00 am DEPART Private Residence *En route Washington Convention Center
8:20 am ARRIVE Washington Convention Center
8:30 am BILATERAL w/PM HSIEN LOONG LEE, SINGAPORE
8:45 am S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
9:00 am BILATERAL w/FM MOURAD MEDELCI, ALGERIA
9:15 am S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
9:30 am MORNING SESSION OF THE NUCLEAR SECURITY SUMMIT
11:30 am Plenary Room, Washington Convention Center
10:00 am BILATERAL w/TURKISH FM DAVUTOGLU
10:30 am S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
10:45 am BILATERAL w/EGYPTIAN FM ABOUL GHEIT
11:15 am S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
11:15 am BILATERAL w/FM TAIEB FASSI-FIHRI, MOROCCO
11:30 am S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
11:40 am BILATERAL w/FOREIGN MINISTER KASIT, THAILAND
12:00 pm S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
12:00 pm CO-HOST WORKING LUNCH w/ENERGY SEC'Y CHU FOR MEMBERS
1:10 pm OF DELEGATIONS Dining Room, Washington Convention Center
1:15 pm PLUTONIUM DISPOSITION AGREEMENT SIGNING w/RUSSIAN FM
1:30 pm SERGEY LAVROV Room 147A, Press Bfg Rm 2, Washington Convention Ctr.
1:30 pm POTUS PULL ASIDE w/ PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN, TURKEY
1:45 pm Miniature Bilateral Room A, Outside of Plenary Session
Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
2:00 pm Al, IERNOON PLENARY SESSION OF THE NUCLEAR SECURITY
4:00 pm SUMMIT Plenary Room, Washington Convention Center
2:30 pm BILATERAL w/CHILEAN FM MORENO
3:00 pm S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
3:15 pm BILATERAL w/BRAZILIAN FM AMORIM
3:45 pm S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
4:00 pm BILATERAL w/PRIME MINISTER DUNG, VIETNAM
4:30 pm S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
4:45 pm BILATERAL w/PRES1DENT SARGSIAN, ARMENIA
5:15 pm S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
5:30 pm ONE-ON-ONE PULL-ASIDE w/FOREIGN SEC'Y DAVID MILIBAND
5:45 pm S Bilateral Room 148, Washington Convention Ctr *Camera spray at top.
6:00 pm POTUS BILATERAL w/GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERICEL
6:30 pm Room 152A, Washington Convention Center *Camera spray at top.
6:35pm (t) DEPART Washington Convention Center *En route Four Seasons Hotel
6:55 pm ARRIVE Four Seasons Hotel
7:00 pm BILATERAL w/PAKISTANI PRIME MINISTER GILANI
7:45 pm Room 476, Fourth Floor, Four Seasons Hotel *Camera spray at top.
7:50 pm DEPART Four Seasons Hotel *En route Private Residence
8:00 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
12:00 pm HEADS OF DELEGATION LUNCHEON
1:30 pm Leaders Dining Room
4:30 pm POTUS PRESS CONFERENCE
5:00 pm Press Room, Washington Convention Center
5:00 pm NUCLEAR SECURITY SUMMIT CLOSING RECEPTION
6:00 Pm Room Tbd, Washington Convention Center
###
 --- 

FYI see below - first time since 1968 that they've allowed privatization in the retail sector.
EXCLUSIVE - Cuba handing beauty, barber shops over to workers
Mon Apr 12, 2010 11:05pm 1ST
By Marc Frank
HAVANA (Reuters) - Communist Cuba is turning over hundreds of state-run barber shops and beauty salons to
employees across the country in what appears to be the start of a long-expected revamping of state retail services by
President Raul Castro.The measure marks the first time state-run, retail-level establishments have been handed over to
employees since they were nationalized in 1968.Barbers and hair dressers in telephone interviews from a number of
cities during the weekend said they would now rent the space where they work and pay taxes instead of receiving a
monthly wage.Those employees who do not wish to rent are being offered other jobs or retirement
 --- 


 --- 

sbwhoeop
Tuesday, April 13, 2010 6:35 PM
H: If this poll holds, Labour has a majority. 1st debate thu. Sid
• Print this page
From Times Online
April 14, 2010
Tory lead narrows amid huge voter
disenchantment, Times poll finds
olmage :1 of 20,
Peter Riddell
The general election race is tightening, according to a Populus poll for The Times that reveals deep public
disenchantment with the campaign so far.
The poll, undertaken yesterday and this morning, says that more voters are now hoping for a hung parliament than either
a Tory or a Labour outright victory.
Conservative support has slipped by three points over the past week to 36 per cent, while Labour is a point up at 33 per
cent. The Liberal Democrats are unchanged on 21 per cent.
The polls tend to fluctuate by a couple of points either way. and these shifts are within the margin of error of the average.
With other new polls pointing to a firming in Labour support, the party may have enjoyed a small boost from its manifesto
launch. Tory strategists will hope to have achieved a boost from its manifesto launch today.
If the Populus figures were repeated in the general election in three weeks' time, and there is a uniform switch in votes,
Labour would be the largest single party, with about 300 MPs, ahead of the Tories on 264 and the Lib Dems on 54. This
would point to a Lab/Lib Dem coalition. But many analysts do not expect a uniform national swing.
The latest poll shows that 32 per cent of the public now hope for a hung parliament (as opposed to expecting one),
against 28 per cent wanting a Tory majority and 22 per cent a Labour one. Lib Dem voters prefer a deal with Labour than
the Tories in a hung parliament, by 44 to 31 per cent. The public is evenly split 40 to 42 per cent about whether they want
Labour or the Tories in either a majority or a minority government.
The poll shows that the number expecting a Tory overall majority has risen by three points to 34 per cent over the past
week. This only just exceeds the number expecting a hung parliament, at 33 per cent, down six points compared with a
week ago. Overall, 57 per cent expect the Tories to be the largest party, against 29 per cent expecting Labour to be.
The public is deeply sceptical about the honesty of the parties. Only 4 per cent think that they are being completely honest
about their tax plans, 61 per cent partly honest. Only 6 per cent say they are being completely honest about cutting the
deficit and 61 per cent partly honest. Some 7 per cent say that they are being completely honest about the extent to which
they can fund their policies by cutting waste and 58 per cent partly honest.
Voters were asked to say which party had proposed eight key manifesto pledges. They wrongly identified four: reducing
the increase in national insurance contributions (naming Labour not the Tories); allowing unsuccessful schools, hospitals
and the police (the Tories, not Labour); tightening up takeover rules (the Tories not Labour); and requiring foreign workers
employed in public services to speak fluent English (the Tories not Labour).
In only one case, the £150-a-year tax break, did more than half of voters (60 per cent) correctly identify the party making
the proposal.
In most cases, the pledge will make little difference to people's votes, apart from three made by Labour: the foreign
workers language pledge, doubling paid paternity leave and allowing the takover of unsuccessful schools, hospitals etc.
More than two fifths (43 per cent), including 50 per cent of women, say "none of the parties", or "don't know", when asked
which party is putting across a convincing cases to voters. This compares with 25 per cent naming the Tories and 18 per
cent Labour.
Just over half the public (54 per cent) plan to watch the first televised leaders' debate on Thursday evening. Men and
middle class professionals are more likely to say that they will view. More than two fifths (42 per cent) expect David
Cameron to win the debate, against 22 per cent for Gordon Brown. More Tories (70 per cent) than Labour voters ( 57 per
cent) expect their leader to win.
Two fifths of the public (42 per cent, up one point on a week ago) say it seems like a change from Labour, but are not sure
that it is time for a change to the Conservatives. Some 33 per cent, down one point, think it is time for a change to the
Tories.
Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,525 adult voters on April 12 to 13. Interviews were conducted across the
country and have been weighted to be representative of all adults. For more details go to www.populus.co.uk.
Contact our advertising team for advertising and sponsorship in Times Online, The Times and The Sunday Times, or
place your advertisement.
Times Online Services: Dating I Jobs I Pro_pertv Search I Used Cars I HoEiden I Births Marriages Deaths I
Subscriotionq I E.-paper
News International associated websites: Milkround I Giobrix
Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Ltd.
This service is provided on Times Newspapers' standard Terms and Conditions. Please read our Privacy Policy.To inquire
about a licence to reproduce material from Times Online, The Times or The Sunday Times, click here.This website is
published by a member of the News International Group. News International Limited, 1 Virginia St, London E98 1XY, is
the holding company for the News International group and is registered in England No 81701. VAT number GB 243 8054
69.
 --- 

Just spoke with him. Gordon screwed up with business on national insurance tax, strings pulled by peter. Cameron
manifesto launch was very good. But, but, but... The dogs really are wary of that dog food, hence Times poll tonight. Also
peter gunning for David's job. David aware. The security conf was boffo.
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

Madam Secretary,
Jake asked me to send you a brief update on the effort to create an internal USG website for housing interagency
information about the attitudes, concerns, and media habits of foreign audiences (following up on the memo INR sent to
you on this subject in February).
INR is working with the interagency to create six initial country pages (Indonesia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, and
Yemen) on this website. In addition to background information about each country and its relationship with the United
States, each page will focus on providing up to date information on how local audiences view the United States and an
analysis of the mediums through which local audiences get their news. Pages will also include a list effective messaging
themes that would resonate with target audiences in each country.
In the coming weeks, INR will be receiving interagency feedback on these initial draft web pages, and will be seeking
guidance as to which additional countries should be covered. The hope is that each page will evolve over time based on
user feedback.
Please let me know if you would like any further information.
Thanks,
Mike
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. De artment of State
 --- 

8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am WEEKLY MEETING w/REGIONAL BUREAU SECRETARIES
10:00 am Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
10:15 am PRIVATE MEETING
10:25 am Secretary's Office
10:30 am PREP SESSION FOR POTUS MEETING
11:45 am Secretary's Office
11:55 am DEPART State Department *En route Iglesias Conference Center
12:10 pm ARRIVE Iglesias Conference Center
12:10 pm KEYNOTE REMARKS AT ENERGY AND CLIMATE PARTNERSHIP
12:40 pm OF THE AMERICAS (EPCA) MINISTERIAL LUNCHEON
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
12:40 pm DEPART Iglesias Conference Center *En route State Department
12:55 pm ARRIVE State Department
1:00pm PRE-BRIEF f/ TURKISH BILAT w/JAKE SULLIVAN
1:15pm Secretary's Office
1:15 pm BILATERAL w/TURKISH FM AHMET DAVUTOGLU
2:00 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Camera Spray in Treaty Room preceding.
2:00 pm OFFICE TIME
2:30 pm Secretary's Office
2:30pm PHONE CALL w/NORWEGIAN FM JONAS STOERE
2:45pm Secretary's Office
2:45pm OFFICE TIME
3:30pm Secretary's Office
3:30 pm REMARKS AT THE DEPARTMENT'S ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
3:40 pm INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY (ACIEP) Room 1107
4:00 pm INTERVIEW w/DANIEL DOMBEY, FINANCIAL TIMES
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm MEETING w/PHIL GOLDBERG
5:00 pm Secretary's Office
5:00 pm MEETING w/SPEECH WRITING TEAM
5:30 pm Secretary's Office
5:30 pm OFFICE TIME
7:00 pm Secretary's Office
7:00 pm DEPART State Department *En route The W Hotel
7:10 pm ARRIVE The W Hotel
7:15 pm REMARKS AT THE DEDICATION OF THE S. DANIEL ABRAHAM
7:45 pm CENTER FOR MIDDLE EAST PEACE The W Hotel, Altitude Ballroom, Roof Level
7:50 pm DEPART The W Hotel *En route Private Residence
8:05 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

Thnx. I am happy to do the introduction.
 --- 

For wjc too
Met w/opposition senators for two hours yesterday in Haiti re IHRC.
Bill passed.
Work b/gs.
Cdm
 --- 

If you would like for your blackberry:
Rev. Dr. Bill Shillady [SHILL-uh-dee]
United Methodist City Society
Executive Director
###
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 16, 2010 4:57 AM
Fw: Press Release: Chairman Eliot Engel Praises Energy and Climate Partnership of the
Americas
Fyi
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Hope you have a great weekend.
 --- 


 --- 

See his last point.
cdm
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, April 17, 2010 3:48 PM
FW: Haiti
— Reason: 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 04/17/2025
 --- 

He's asking us to schedule it. He's on his way home now and said he can do in the next few hours.
 --- 

Ill ask about 7
And make sure he can connect to a white phone.
 --- 

7 with jim is fine
Call from your white phone when u r ready and they will connect you.
 --- 

He cannot do 7.
Asking if you can do 8pm?
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, April 17, 2010 6:24 PM
Re: Haiti
They are on board philosophically but don't know how much he would say vis-a-vis Raj
 --- 

Have you seen this story? I look forward to discussing.
Gates Says U.S. Lacks Strategy to Curb Iran's Nuclear Drive
By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER
Published: April 18, 2010
WASHINGTON - Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has warned in a secret three-page memorandum to top White
House officials that the United States does not have an effective long-range policy for dealing with Iran's steady progress
toward nuclear capability, according to government officials familiar with the document.
Several officials said the highly classified analysis, written in January to President Obama's national security adviser, Gen.
James L. Jones, touched off an intense effort inside the Pentagon, the White House and the intelligence agencies to
develop new options for Mr. Obama. They include a revised set of military alternatives, still under development, to be
considered should diplomacy and sanctions fail to force Iran to change course.
Officials familiar with the memo's contents would describe only portions dealing with strategy and policy, and not
sections that apparently dealt with secret operations against Iran, or how to deal with Persian Gulf allies.
One senior official, who like others spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the memo,
described the document as "a wake-up call." But White House officials dispute that view, insisting that for 15 months
they had been conducting detailed planning for many possible outcomes regarding Iran's nuclear program.
In an interview on Friday, General Jones declined to speak about the memorandum. But he said: "On Iran, we are doing
what we said we were going to do. The fact that we don't announce publicly our entire strategy for the world to see
doesn't mean we don't have a strategy that anticipates the full range of contingencies - we do."
But in his memo, Mr. Gates wrote of a variety of concerns, including the absence of an effective strategy should Iran
choose the course that many government and outside analysts consider likely: Iran could assemble all the major parts it
needs for a nuclear weapon - fuel, designs and detonators - but stop just short of assembling a fully operational weapon.
In that case, Iran could remain a signatory of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty while becoming what strategists call a
"virtual" nuclear weapons state.
According to several officials, the memorandum also calls for new thinking about how the United States might contain
Iran's power if it decided to produce a weapon, and how to deal with the possibility that fuel or weapons could be
obtained by one of the terrorist groups Iran has supported, which officials said they considered to be a less-likely
possibility.
Mr. Gates has never mentioned the memo in public. His spokesman, Geoff Morrell, declined comment on specifics in the
document, but issued a statement on Saturday saying, "The secretary believes the president and his national security
team have spent an extraordinary amount of time and effort considering and preparing for the full range of
contingencies with respect to Iran."
Pressed on the administration's ambiguous phrases until now about how close the United States was willing to allow.
Iran's program to proceed, a senior administration official described last week in somewhat clearer terms that there was
a line Iran would not be permitted to cross.
The official said that the United States would ensure that Iran would not "acquire a nuclear capability," a step Tehran
could get to well before it developed a sophisticated weapon. "That includes the ability to have a breakout," he said,
using the term nuclear specialists apply to a country that suddenly renounces the nonproliferation treaty and uses its
technology to build a small arsenal.
Nearly two weeks ago, Mr. Obama, in an interview with The New York Times, was asked about whether he saw a
difference between a nuclear-capable Iran and one that had a fully developed weapon. "I'm not going to parse that right
now," he said. But he noted that North Korea was considered a nuclear-capable state until it threw out inspectors and,
as he said, "became a self-professed nuclear state."
Mr. Gates has alluded to his concern that intelligence agencies might miss signals that Iran was taking the final steps
toward producing a weapon. Last Sunday on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," he said: "If their policy is to go to
the threshold but not assemble a nuclear weapon, how do you tell that they have not assembled? I don't actually know
how you would verify that." But he cautioned that Iran had run into production difficulties, and he said, "It's going slow -
slower than they anticipated, but they are moving in that direction."
Mr. Gates has taken a crucial role in formulating the administration's strategy, and he has been known over his career to
issue stark warnings against the possibility of strategic surprise.
Some officials said his memo should be viewed in that light: as a warning to a relatively new president that the United
States was not adequately prepared.
He wrote the memo after Iran had let pass a 2009 deadline set by Mr. Obama to respond to his offers of diplomatic
engagement.
Both that process and efforts to bring new sanctions against Iran have struggled. Administration officials had hoped that
the revelation by Mr. Obama in September that Iran was building a new uranium enrichment plant inside a mountain
near Qum would galvanize other nations against Iran, but the reaction was muted. The next three months were spent in
what proved to be fruitless diplomatic talks with Iran over a plan to swap much of its low-enriched uranium for fuel for a
medical reactor in Tehran. By the time Mr. Gates wrote his memo, those negotiations had collapsed.
Mr. Gates's memo appears to reflect concerns in the upper echelons of the Pentagon and the military that the White
House did not have a well-prepared series of alternatives in place in case all the diplomatic steps finally failed. In fact,
just before Mr. Gates issued his warning, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, wrote an official
"chairman's guidance" to his staff saying that while any military option would have "limited results" against Iran's
nuclear facilities, preparations needed to be stepped up.
"Should the president call for military options, we must have them ready," the admiral wrote.
Administration officials testifying before a Senate committee last week made it clear that those preparations were under
way. So did General Jones. "The president has made it clear from the beginning of this administration that we need to be
prepared for every possible contingency," he said in the interview. "That is what we have done from day one, while
successfully building a coalition of nations to isolate Iran and pressure it to live up to its obligations."
At the same hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee, Lt. Gen. Ronald L. Burgess Jr., director of the Defense
Intelligence Agency, and Gen. James E. Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and one of the military's
most experienced officers on nuclear matters, said that Iran could produce bomb-grade fuel for at least one nuclear
weapon within a year, but that it would probably need two to five years to manufacture a workable atomic bomb.
The administration has been stepping up efforts to contain the influence of Iran and counter its missiles, including
placing Patriot anti-missile batteries, mostly
 --- 

(wanted to give you some brief observations from my trip to Lithuania. First of all, their friendship with the US and
respect for you was much in evidence on all levels. Most of the cabinet turned out for the reception that the amb hosted
for me. The FM went out his way to tell me what it meant to get a call from you when he assumed his position (he's
hoping to have a few mins with you in Tallin). As far as Lith has to go, it has achieved some remarkable achievements for
Eastern Eur. They have a female president, Speaker, Finance minister and def. minister. I had a good meeting with the
President and thanked her for Lith commitment to our collective efforts in afghanistan. They run the smallest PRT and,
despite a tough economy, have done everything we've asked in terms of additional support since the surge. The meeting
with the Speaker and top women members of the parl'nt was yet another reminder of your inspiration over many years.
One of the women was at the Vienna W conf and said she's in politics today because of you. Another read about safe
birthing kits in your book and was inspired to send several thousand to Afghanistan. They are eager for more
opportunities to work together.
I came primarily to launch the new working group on gender that we and Lith are co-chairing. There was much gratitude
for our leadership with them in the Community of Democracies.
The meaning of democracy is so strong for people who had to stuggle for it more recently. They really feel this is an
important time to renew the understanding of democ, particularly after the bruising it underwent over the last several
years.
We had terrific turnout from other countries, many comments about you and references to Beijing and Iceland W conf.
(So many people told me the impact Vienna and Iceland had on them). We left our meeting with many commitments for
future concrete projects that will be undertaken. There is great hope that you will be in Krakow in July for the CD
ministerial. The Lith CD coordinator headed to Belgium the next day for an EU meeting. He told me he got a very positive
response for our gender initiative and that Ashton was particularly excited about it. The EU is locating their new gender
institute in Lithuania and they are ager for our help.
The Dutch minister who came
said the outcome of their election in June will say much about the nature of their ongoing commitment in Afg.
Lastly, I arrived shortly after the Polish tragedy. There is a very close relationship between the 2 countries and their grief
was palpable. Jolenta Kwasniewska and several other Poles came to the CD meeting. She told me that they lost so many
of their top leaders across all sectors of society, incl several top women leaders. Jolenta' foundation has been very active
in advancing women's progress in Poland as well as working in other countries.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

FYI. Mostly good news. I am already focusing on Turkey. Met with my Turkish counter-part last week and have a trip
planned for early June.
I'll keep you posted as things move forward. Will also send you an email on the high side about my SSCI hearing last
week.
— Reason: 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 04/19/2020
1.4(D)
B1
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Joint Statement by Former President Clinton and Secretary of State Clinton on the Passing of Dr. Dorothy Height We are
deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Dr. Dorothy Height, an icon of America's long march toward equality and a
personal inspiration to us both. As the only woman among the "Big Six" civil rights leaders, Dr. Height helped galvanize a
movement that changed our country forever. She organized the "Wednesdays in Mississippi" meetings that brought
black and white women together to find common ground and break down barriers. She never stopped fighting for what
she knew was right. And through it all, she was always the best dressed woman in the room. We were blessed to know
Dr. Height, to benefit from her grace, passion and wisdom, and to call her our friend. For decades, starting with the early
days at the Children's Defense Fund, we worked with her, learned from her, and drew inspiration from her example.
From the Presidential Medal of Freedom, to the Congressional Gold Medal, to the unveiling of a long-sought-after bust
of Sojourner Truth in the United States Capitol, we had the privilege of helping honor Dr. Height and her
accomplishments. Born before women had the right to vote, denied access to the college of her choice because of the
color of her skin, and witness to nation divided, Dr. Height dedicated her life to the proposition that all Americans should
have the opportunity to live up to their full God-given potential. Our nation is poorer for her loss but infinitely richer for
the life she led, the progress she achieved, and the people she touched. Our thoughts and prayers are with Dr. Height's
family today, and with her many loving friends and colleagues. She would be the first to tell us that the best way to
honor her memory is to carry forward the work she started and the causes she championed, to open wide the freedom
gates. May we all find the strength and the wisdom to live up to her legacy.
 --- 


 --- 

Basically if they can get their teams in from brussels tomorrow morning (a day before nato starts), its moving forward.
We should know approx 6am our time. However, if we need to be wheels up at 8am, that's too short notice. I just told
ivo we need to lean on them to make a decision sooner. Will keep u posted but we are def getting the sense they want
to move forward.
 --- 

Thnx for talking to Wendell. Will do. Spoke to Tim already via email and he getting me paper and then we can discuss.
Also told him to have Wendell go to the Expo opening. Altho delayed could also have an impact.
 --- 

Fyi traffic
Mills, Cheryl D
Monday, April
FW: Sanctions
<MillsCD©state.gov>
19, 2010 4:20 PM
and Transitions
 --- 

###
 --- 


 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Sunday, April 18, 2010 6:21 PM
Re: Tomorrow
latest is that nato will make decision tomorrow morning, they don't want to cancel unless they have to and unless we
have other dates to offer. We talked about around poland in July for the alternative.
Phil and I are connecting early tomorrow.
My guess is it will be moved.
 --- 


 --- 

Cloture was invoked on Lael Brainard's nomination this afternoon, 84-10.
Miguel E. Rodriguez
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Senate Affairs
Bureau of Legislative Affairs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2645
rodriguezme@state.gov
 --- 

Yes sorry.
Here is what he said:
 --- 

This is the latest, believe it or not.
 --- 

Update on airport openings. Looks like estonia is partially open. They think most ministers will fly private so they seem to
want to try and move forward.
 --- 

Yes, joint w/WJC, Huma should have for your review
 --- 

Lael was confirmed....79 to 19.
 --- 

Lael Brainard was confirmed 78-19 this afternoon.
Miguel E. Rodriguez
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Senate Affairs
Bureau of Legislative Affairs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2645
rodriguezme@state.gov
 --- 

ahead.
Scheduled for 3:00 PM.
 --- 

I had a good visit with her. She very much wants you to come to Egypt for the major anti-trafficking event she is doing in
December and sends you her regards.
Egypt is making good progress on women's issues: prosecuting child marriage cases, combating FGM and they're close to
passing a tough anti-trafficking law. Mrs M is the guiding force.
She and the President appreciated your call after his surgery. The most difficult part of our conversation was
We also announced our partnership with egypt for the training of. Afghan midwives at the suzanne mubarek health
center in Alexandria.
 --- 


 --- 

Of Former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto .pdf
pi
As you will note from Larry's message below, we are dealing with a another "situation' in Islamabad. I have asked Larry
to work with his team to be sure our response gets as broad coverage as possible in Pakistan and on-line so our reaction
is picked up by googlers. As you know, although our immediate reaction may be to just blow this stuff off we ignore it at
our peril since it seems there are large segments of the population who actually believe this stuff. I also want to be sure
we get it out to the diaspora community here and elsewhere. Thoughts ?
jrn
 --- 

Example of our hitting back in action -- it works.
 --- 

great
 --- 

I have sent Pi an email about this and will let you know what he thinks. I'm want to be sure we hit the Pakistani disapora
here and elsewhere.
 --- 

Setup for foreign policy TV debate on Thursday. Obviously, this is a popular position. Clegg is now at the height of his
popularity and playing to public opinion. Clegg is pushing off both Brown (still suffering from Obama's dismissive slights,
unpopularity of Afghanistan, and, deepest factor, Bush poisoning of the well) and Cameron (making him an old
Thatcherite, pro-US, anti-EU). Clegg is an ardent Europeanist, not so much Americanist.
http://itn.co.uk/b0929495306b2635ca77854b1db33626.html
Clegg: special relationship with US is over
Tue Apr 20 2010 20:38:43
ctThe "special relationship" between Britain and the United States is over, Nick Clegg has said.
The Liberal Democrat leader said Barack Obama's administration "understood the world had changed" and the UK's
leaders needed to end their "slavish" devotion to Washington.
Mr Clegg also warned against "sabre-rattling" over Iran's nuclear ambitions and repeated his pledge to offer a referendum
on the UK's continued membership of the European Union when the issue next arose.
The Lib Dems have ruled out replacing Trident with a like-for-like system and Mr Clegg said the UK should consider "not
having a continuous at sea deterrent".
In a speech to the Foreign Press Association in London, Mr Clegg said it was time to challenge the "conventional wisdom"
that had lasted since the Suez crisis about the UK's relationship with the US.
He said: "I think it's sometimes rather embarrassing the way Conservative and Labour politicians talk in this kind of slavish
way about the special relationship. If you speak to hard-nosed folk in Washington they think 'it's a good relationship but it's
not the special relationship'."
 --- 

Napolitano and Secretary of State Clinton
fyi
 --- 

I know that Jack gave you a verbal summary, but here is the blow by blow. Not a wonderful meeting. To me the biggest
issue concerns the role of the NSC versus State/USAID in coordinating development policy. I will send some thoughts on
a possible strategy tomorrow. Jake, Cheryl and Jack have all seen this summary and Jack has approved it. AM
 --- 

Permit me an unsolicited observation on the Bosnia issue.
 --- 


 --- 

Lissa and I met at the end of last week.
She had worked through a number of candidates.
She had narrowed to 3: (but see below); ; and She was continuing her B6
outreach.
Her email below is the latest update.
She has agreed not to depart even on 1 June if we have not yet settled and brought someone on board but I think we
are on track to do interviews the next two weeks and then give sample writings and opportunities to decide in sufficient
time.
Her update below is fyi to you.
 --- 

Hillary and Cheryl,
I'm feeling very good about our recent efforts to connect our speeches thematically. We've done it with development,
human rights, and Internet freedom; and most recently with AIPAC, Ctr for Middle East Peace, and next the AJC. Here's
what I want to suggest: The three most basic elements of human existence are food, water, and health. We have now
done major speeches on food and water. I'd like us to consider a major speech on global health — the third in a
trilogy. Linking these three issues thematically, we can explain how and why foreign policy challenges and solutions
must be seen through a prism of human survival and why the conditions of people's lives influence everything from
economic development to political stability and more. This trilogy of speeches (with the right PR) could further
underscore our elevation of development AND our comprehensive, smart power approach to foreign policy. After
all, food, water, and health are the sine qua non of human progress. And this is a Hillary Clinton signature idea, at least
to me. Thoughts?
LM
 --- 

Sheepishly inquired as to whether you might be willing to speak at Madeira's commencement on June 4th in the
morning. It's her last time officiating as head of the school. It's a couple of days before the Lat Am trip. Thoughts?
 --- 

I like this idea.
I like even better that we have a nutrition speech coming up which bridges GNI and GHFSI and we could use it as a venue
not only to check the box re: FS, but health.
cdm
 --- 

You are the world's best boss!
AM
 --- 

I'll find out about the date and whether they could move it.
 --- 

Great! We will start working on how to connect these issues thematically, beginning with CARE speech. Maybe can
weave water in there as well to underscore our point.
 --- 

FYI
Kristof's OpEd From Today's NY Times.
April 22, 2010
Op-Ed Columnist
Obama Backs Down on Sudan
By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
JUBA, Sudan
Until he reached the White House, Barack Obama repeatedly insisted that the United States apply more pressure on
Sudan so as to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe in Darfur and elsewhere.
Yet, as president, Mr. Obama and his aides have caved, leaving Sudan gloating at American weakness. Western
monitors, Sudanese journalists and local civil society groups have all found this month's Sudanese elections to be deeply
flawed - yet Mr. Obama's special envoy for Sudan, Maj. Gen. Scott Gration, pre-emptively defended the elections, saying
they would be "as free and as fair as possible." The White House showed only a hint more backbone with a hurried
reference this week to "an essential step" with "serious irregularities."
President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan - the man wanted by the International Criminal Court for crimes against
humanity in Darfur - has been celebrating. His regime calls itself the National Congress Party, or N.C.P., and he was
quoted in Sudan as telling a rally in the Blue Nile region: "Even America is becoming an N.C.P. member. No one is against
our will."
Memo to Mr. Obama: When a man who has been charged with crimes against humanity tells the world that America is
in his pocket, it's time to review your policy.
Perhaps the Obama administration caved because it considers a flawed election better than no election. That's a
reasonable view, one I share. It's conceivable that Mr. Bashir could have won a quasi-fair election - oil revenues have
manifestly raised the standard of living in parts of Sudan - and the campaigning did create space for sharp criticism of
the government.
It's also true that Sudan has been behaving better in some respects.
The death toll in Darfur is hugely reduced, and the government is negotiating with rebel groups there. The Sudanese
government gave me a visa and travel permits to Darfur, allowing me to travel legally and freely.
The real game isn't, in fact, Darfur or the elections but the maneuvering for a possible new civil war. The last north-south
civil war in Sudan ended with a fragile peace in 2005, after some two million deaths. The peace agreement provided for
a referendum, scheduled to take place in January, in which southern Sudanese will decide whether to secede. They are
expected to vote overwhelmingly to form a separate country.
Then the question becomes: will the north allow South Sudan to separate? The south holds the great majority of the
country's oil, and it's difficult to see President Bashir allowing oil fields to walk away.
"If the result of the referendum is independence, there is going to be war - complete war," predicts Mudawi Ibrahim
Adam, one of Sudan's most outspoken human rights advocates. He cautions that America's willingness to turn a blind
eye to election-rigging here increases the risk that Mr. Bashir will feel that he can get away with war.
"They're very naïve in Washington," Mr. Mudawi said. "They don't understand what is going on."
On the other hand, a senior Sudanese government official, Ghazi Salahuddin, told me unequivocally in Khartoum, the
nation's capital, that Sudan will honor the referendum results. And it's certainly plausible that north and south will
muddle through and avoid war, for both sides are exhausted by years of fighting.
Here in Juba, the South Sudan capital, I met Winnie Wol, 26, who fled the civil war in 1994 after a militia from the north
attacked her village to kill, loot, rape and burn. Her father and many relatives were killed, but she escaped and made her
way to Kenya - and eventually resettled as a refugee in California. She now lives in Olathe, Kan., and she had returned
for the first time to Sudan to visit a mother and sisters she had last seen when she was a little girl.
Ms. Wol, every bit the well-dressed American, let me tag along for her journey back to her village of Nyamlell, 400 miles
northwest of Juba.
The trip ended by a thatch-roof hut that belonged to her mother, who didn't know she was coming - so no one was
home. Ms. Wol was crushed.
Then there was a scream and a woman came running. It was Ms. Wol's mother, somehow recognizing her, and they flew
into each other's arms.
To me, it felt like a peace dividend.
Yet that peace is fragile, and Ms. Wol knows that the northern forces may come back to pillage again. "I don't want
war," she said, "but I don't think they will allow us to separate."
My own hunch is that the north hasn't entirely decided what to do, and that strong international pressure can reduce
the risk of another savage war. If President Obama is ever going to find his voice on Sudan, it had better be soon.
 --- 

Pis print for HRC to read this weekend.
She can sign here on Monday and we can scan to them.
Happy to discuss with her.
cdm
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Thursday, April 22, 2010 6:09 PM
H; Mills, Cheryl D
Re: To Cheryl Mills: Rep. McGovern Letter to President Obama, DHS Secretary
Napolitano and Secretary of State Clinton
Craig and I have discussed the state sponsor of terror issue a couple of times
Let me follow up with him.
 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B6
fyi
 --- 

I think it's Dec 10 at the Winter Palace in Luxor where you previously staved I'll eet exact date
The. Assembly passed a
good anti-trafficking law a day ago because of her leadership. I think it's a first for the region.
I saw the FM today. He said, "Tell dear Hillary that I send hugs."
I'm heading home finally. Its been intensive but very good. They love you here.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Friday, April 23, 2010 10:06 AM
h: just a line. S
Next time you feel like stepping all over your story by saying you are tired, use the line of the black woman in the
Montgomery bus boycott who walked to work: "My feet is tired, but my soul is rested."
On UK: Clegg held his own in the second debate last night. Gordon hit him as "anti-American." This feels like it's moving
to a hung parliament. Cameron can't break through. Two-thirds of the voters simply hate the Tories. No matter how well
Clegg does the system doesn't allow for any gain in seats to match his personal poll numbers. UK stunned by its first
series of debates and the whole campaign has atrophied in wonderment, little happening between the debates. Final one
next week, but guaranteed not to be conclusive, just a repetition, confirming the earlier two.
Sid
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Friday, April 23, 2010 10:11 AM
FYI Kornblum... Sid
In light of Clegg's rising popularity partly based on his anti-Americanism and Germany's growing hegemony in Europe
while becoming more insular, John Kornblum has written this op-ed with reference in last graphs to US policy.
7.71
April 23, 2010
I.H.T. Op-Ed Contributor
Germany in Need of a Dream
By JOHN KORNBLUM
Has Germany abandoned Europe? Do Angela Merkel's tough conditions for aid to Greece mean that Germany is no
longer the motor of European integration? Has Frau Merkel in fact morphed from the Miss Europa of 2007 to the Fraulein
Germania of 2010, as Germany's own former foreign minister Joschka Fischer has suggested?
As a former American ambassador who has lived arid worked the better part of four decades around Germany, my
Blackberry often glows red hot with messages from persons asking these questions. My response is always the same:
Germany has changed very little, but Europe and the world have changed a lot. Therein lies the dilemma.
Germany has worked hard to dig its way out of the disaster of 1945, but trauma remains a defining issue for German
society. Sixty five years later, Germany is still focused on the three essentials of its recovery: stability, respectability and
peace. Keep this triangle in mind and lots of things quickly come into focus.
From the first days of the Federal Republic. Germany's leaders emphasized the importance of defining interests solely
within a common European and Atlantic vocation. But they also understood that renouncing national ambitions did not
remove the responsibility to pursue specific German goals through the common institutions.
Many important postwar accomplishments were conceived and pushed by Germany, sometimes over the opposition of
others — including the United States. Ostpolitik was controversial for years, as was NATO enlargement. Germany pushed
them with determination.
Helmut Kohl did not consult before promulgating his 10 points on reunification. He agreed to French desires for a common
currency, but only if it could be a mirror of the Deutsche mark, for decades the European monetary standard. The euro
stability pact, now the object of so much controversy with Greece, was the result. After 1990, the E.U.'s eastward
expansion was Germany's way of firming up its Eastern flank.
Slowly and without fanfare, Germany has been remaking the European Union in its image. At each step of the way,
Germany made its wishes more palatable by paying more than its share. Part of today's misunderstanding is caused by
Germany's success in using its contributions to build an image of selflessness. Germany has been as single-minded in
pursuit of its goals as Charles de Gaulle ever was for his, but it almost always left leadership to others.
A new consciousness grew after the costs of reunification began to mount. "Europe" in the institutional sense has become
increasingly unpopular. German courts have begun to define German European issues in the context of the German
Constitution rather than on the basis of E.U. law. At least some of Ms. Merkel's refusal to allow immediate assistance to
Greece was based on her fears that it would fan anti-E.U. sentiment at home. Are these the first signs of a German Tea
Party?
Here we find the source of most of the hand wringing about Germany's role as the "motor of Europe." Ms. Merkel's
unwillingness to sweeten the financial pot echoed throughout Brussels. To many, it signified the decline of German
willingness to "salute the French flag three times before raising the German flag," as Konrad Adenauer used to put it.
Germans are not alone in objecting to throwing more money into the E.U. pot, but they happen to be the only ones who
can do something about it. Many fear that without German complaisance, the E.U. will stutter to a stop. But such self-
denial could never offer a viable foundation for a new Europe. Neither could the inefficiency and even corruption that
characterizes many E.U. programs.
Most maddening for most thinking Europeans is the knowledge that the Germans are right. But to them, the question is
whether Germany is remaking the E.U. in a fashion palatable to the majority of other member states. They are not so sure
that its focus on stability and accountability is the right way to help such a diverse collection of peoples adjust to a
globalized world.
And so when Angela Merkel raps Greek knuckles, she is sending a message most Europeans don't want to hear. Not that
Germany is dangerous; even worse, that it is unrelenting. The Neue aricher Zeitung probably spoke for many others
when it once accused Germany of wanting Europe to become a large Switzerland.
The growing gap between Germany's aspirations and the perceived needs of other members of the E.U. is beginning to
burden both sides. Most Europeans are simply not ready to live up to German standards. Without a more flexible sense of
common purpose, the project to build a democratic Europe could stop dead in the water. But as Germans will themselves
often tell you: They have forgotten how to dream.
Younger Germans feel this lack of inspiration as well. Dreams were what 200,000 of them were waiting to hear when they
rallied to hear Barack Obama in Berlin two summers ago. They wanted more than to "Dare to Hope," which is the
characteristically timid German translation of the title of the president's best seller. And they are still waiting. America
seems busy elsewhere.
The main conclusion I draw from the debate about Germany is that it is not about Germany at all. The task of building a
democratic Europe is far from complete. Most of the foundations have been laid and now the residents are starting to
haggle over the design. Weaving today's 27 states into a true trans-Atlantic partnership is a task that is too big for
Germany or even Europe to accomplish alone. They desperately need some skilled architectural assistance.
Uniting Europe and North America is the most audacious project ever conceived. If it works, the United States will be
joined by nearly 500 million Europeans to form a democratic space, within which modern democratic values will harness
more energy than in any single nation on earth. Democracy's future as the operating system for a globalized world will be
assured.
European fecklessness seems to worry Washington officials these days. But if Germany has forgotten how to dream and
the United States is too busy to try, we will both be guilty of perpetuating the aimlessness we so criticize. To hold up its
side of the bargain, Europe needs exactly what Barack Obama originally promised — the audacity of hope.
John Kornblum, senior counselor with the international law firm Noerr LLP in Berlin, served as the U.S. ambassador to
Germany from 1997 to 2001.
 --- 


 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 23, 2010 11:46 AM
H
Sullivan, Jacob J; Burns, William J
FW: Americans held in Iran
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Can we put out the below?
Draft S Statement on the Hikers
I was pleased to learn of the consular visit yesterday by the Swiss Ambassador in Iran to the three detained American
hikers, Shane Bauer, Josh Fattal, and Sarah Shourd. But we are disturbed by the families' reports of their children's
physical and emotional health. These three Americans -- innocent tourists in Iraq's Kurdistan region when they were
detained on July 31, 2009 -- have been unjustly held for almost nine months without formal charges or access to legal
representation. We ask the Islamic Republic of Iran to release these three Americans and allow them to go home and be
reunited with their families.
###
 --- 

We did. I sent this to you at Goose Bay.
 --- 

Sure thing. Will prepare a call sheet for you.
 --- 

This call will be after indonesia. Oscar can u print for her?
Points for President Silajdzic call:
 --- 

Formal eur points on bosnia:
Proposed Points Follow:
Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Saturday, April 24, 2010 1:16 PM
H; Oscar Flores
Bosnia
 --- 

We prepared a call sheet that is in clearance now. Will send to you ASAP.
 --- 

We can def ask.
 --- 

I will be out of the office on official travel through Tuesday May 4. Please send any urgent action items to the SCA Staff
Assistants or SCA PDAS Pat Moon. Thanks, Bob
 --- 

I don't think it is, honestly -- but we should probably offer a date option to them when/if we call them to postpone.
Lona Valmoro
S • ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

The UK election, I think, reflects lingering fixation on Tony. They just can't get over him. The British public feels like the
wife he abandoned for George W. Bush, wants vengeance, yet still pines for him. Clegg is a Tony stand-in love object,
Cameron a pretender. Alas, poor Gordon, Heathcliffe, unloved, unlovable, suffering.
 --- 

I hope that you can read this (3 pages) before your meeting with Secretary Gates on pooled funding on Monday. I have
spent a lot of time thinking about these issues in the context of the QDDR, but I think if we're going to push the position I
suggest, it has to be now. If you agree, there are a number of ways we can make this quite attractive to other agencies as
well as DoD. AM
 --- 

For you eyes only
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

1.4(D)
Fyi
1.4(D) — Declassify on: 04/23/2035
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <Sullivanil@state.gov>
Saturday, April 24, 2010 7:53 PM
Re: Amano B1
1.4(D)
Yep --they've been distributed.
Scheland, Mark B6
1.4(D)
B1
 --- 

The Secretary's Call Sheet for Majority Leader Harry Reid
Saturday, April 24, 2010
BACKGROUND: Yesterday (Friday, April 23, 2010), Majority Leader Reid sent you a letter in
which he asked you to work with Congress to "quickly complete action on the Iran sanctions
legislation." Additionally, he encouraged you "to support direct [peace] negotiations between the
Israelis and Palestinians."
Iran Sanctions
Israeli-Palestinian Peace Negotiations
Call Notes:
<<Reid Call Sheet 4-24-10.docx>>
 --- 


 --- 

Just sent to you in a separate email.
 --- 

Really good stuff. Especially fantastic opening page
Getting very very good feedback
I can't even remember now what if anything in it bugged me yesterday. Nothing in it has anyone making a double take
to flesh out so far.
Its overall frame of the partnership paints you in exactly the way I think people respect you most, and I think Hirsh might
actually have come up with a theme that will stick.
Have only seen the cover photo online, I want to see the hardcopy since we all know it's the pictures that really matter.
Text on the cover is great
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

You're very welcome. We've got a pretty good process in place handling the projects, and as always, we have a great
product to sell.
And as a non-Methodist list maker, this project now comes off mine, and Caroline will be crossing it off our white board
tomorrow, a very satisfying ritual. Esquire's should hit soon and will hopefully be as positive. Then it's just 60 left, and I
feel good about that too.
I would say that the one thing that's going to continue to be annoying is people pressing you on how long you'll serve.
When Tavis got you to say you probably won't for 8 years, that was especially stupid newsmaking on his part. Hirsh tried
it with four, and I think others will.
Might just be easiest to say, I've learned not to predict the future - including my own - but I intend to and hope to. We
have a lot to do, so much that we've started, and I want to see it through.
Or just a simple I hope to
If you don't you don't nobody's going to call you on saying you 'intended to' a year earlier. Again, the 8 years was
especially dumb speculation
But these questions are really code for are you happy, are you being treated well, do you have enough juice? And no
point to let people interpret the answer to their nefarious use.
 --- 

PIR <preines( _
Sunday, April 25, 2010 10:36 AM
H .
Re: Newsweek
 --- 

I second Philippe's assessment. In a funny way, having the few negative quotes (which basically posit the standard
critiques) works in our favor, because the rest of the piece undermines/marginalizes them very effectively.
 --- 

The word from Ramallah is quite positive. IF there are no announcements this week, we anticipate that the Arab League
Follow-up Committee will give its blessing on May 1 and Sen Mitchell can return to the region to start talking substance.
Given the Israelis' warning, this is a real If.
Karl/Frank will go in today to walk Karzai through the particulars of the visit - the only thorny part is that it has dropped
from 4 to 3 days. But it has all the same elements, plus a dinner with Biden.
Did you see reports that Iran has dropped out of the running for the UNSC? Trying to confirm.
Andrew S. will be sending you a long memo that responds to DOD's pooling proposals - it conveys a desire to work
together with DOD on this and offers some alternative ideas. He also canvassed the building on other topics and will
send a list up for your book tonight. He and I agreed that the list should just be for reference and that your approach of
having informal conversation on the big topics is the right one.
You saw CDM's email about the Sudan ad. Ben emailed yesterday to say he wants to talk Sudan comms strategy going
forward. Hopefully I'll reach him today. I know CDM is talking to Denis.
 --- 

Wow What a nice suprise. Thanks 4 words of support and enthusiasm alas my gain has given omaaley his nemisis.
The erlichs r running 4 gov. Both husband/wife were looking @ senate. But. Dem. Md. Will be like NATO. An. Attack on
one an attack on all am zipping around the. State and. Tweeting. Can u believe it. Along way from our perogi tours.
NY. ---- your are the best.
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
 --- 

You'll get from Derek and me tonight a short agenda with framing questions for the Iran meeting tomorrow. Derek is on
call to act as a sort of conductor and move the conversation along, if need be.
 --- 

I had a very good chat with VMI
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

Thnx on GPF. A lot of ideas out there.
Kurt and Hormats were looking into it. Will bug them in the am.
 --- 

yes — I can talk now — does now work for you?
 --- 

Did you get what you need? Is there anything else that might be helpful to you?
 --- 

Campbell, Kurt M <CampbelIKM@state.gov>
Monday, April 26, 2010 6:33 AM
Re: Futenma
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
B1
Thanks Madame Secretary in HK on the way to Tokyo.
yvill know more in Tokyo tomorrow and will
report to you directly. Best Kurt
 --- 


 --- 

I'll check on Durmer and take care of the rest.
 --- 

You signed as letter to Durmer on April 6th. I sent the numbers to WJC, and asked Morningstar to call Clark. He will let
me know once they've spoken.
 --- 

Do you want notes/background material or a script for your remarks at the memorial? Also Madeira
 --- 


 --- 

McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA@state.gov>
Monday, April 26, 2010 3:09 PM
Mills, Cheryl D; Sullivan, Jacob J; DiMartino, Kitty; Douglas, Walter T; Macmanus, Joseph
FW: Update on your trip to Doha
FYI, I will be going to Doha this weekend to meet with Al Jazeera. Also plan to meet with CENTCOM and then onto Kabul
for two days of meetings. Back next Thursday.
im
 --- 

Interesting.
 --- 

Absolutely. Already working on it.
 --- 

PIR <preines
Monday, April 26, 2010 9:52 PM
Re: Nice picture!
Today's to do list read:
1) Remove all copies of Post from 7th floor
2) Prevent item from appearing in clips
3) Avoid HRC at all costs, provide no opportunity for ribbing
As you can see I went 0 for 3
 --- 

FYI — today the SFRC will take up at its business meeting the State Dept authorization bill. We have been
working with them for months on this package, and they have taken virtually all of our provisions in
tact. There are a few problems (minor) that we will continue to work on those, but all in all it is a good
package. Unfortunately, it will never become enacted, so it is largely a symbolic gesture, but it is helpful
nonetheless. Thought Kerry or Lugar might mention it to you, and our general posture has been to thank
them for their efforts.
 --- 

You might consider making a statement on the deleterious international effects of Arizona's unwise and precipitous law
violating traditional American values of liberty, especially in light of Mexican President Calderon's condemnation. Seems
like a complete freebie. Sid
 --- 

Nice.
 --- 

I refined my earlier draft and worked in
(LM3) is in your book for tonight.
see what you think. The new draft
 --- 

April 27, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:00 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:00 am BREAKFAST w/ WOMEN ENTREPRENEURSHIP SUMMIT
9:15 am ATTENDEES Benjamin Franldin Room, 8" Floor
9:30 am BIWEEKLY MEETING w/MANAGEMENT TEAM
10:00 am Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
10:00 am WEEKLY MEETING w/UNDER SECRETARIES
10:45 am Secretary's Conference Room
11:15am PHONE CALL w/OAS SECRETARY GENERAL JOSE MIGUEL INSULZA
11:30am Secretary's Office
11:30 am OFFICE TIME
2:00 pm Secretary's Office
2:00 pm BILATERAL w/TUNISIAN FM KAMEL MORJANE
2:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Camera spray in Treaty Room preceding.
2:50 pm REMARKS TO THE ANNUAL IRAN WATCHERS CONFERENCE
3:00 pm Delegates Lounge, First Floor *Official photo.
3:15 pm MEETING w/FAMILIES OF IRAN HIKERS
3:30 pm Secretary's Office *Official photo.
4:00 pm BILAT w/HONDURAN SEC' Y OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS MARIO
4:30 pm CANAHUATI Secy's Conf. Room *Camera Spray in Treaty Room preceding.
4:30 pm OFFICE TIME
7:00 pm Secretary's Office
7:05 pin DEPART State Department *En route Shiloh Baptist Church
7:25 pm ARRIVE Shiloh Baptist Church
7:30 pm COMMUNITY CELEBRATION OF LIFE FOR DR DOROTHY HEIGHT
8:00 pm (t) Shiloh Baptist Church, 1500 Ninth Street, NW
8:05 pm (t) DEPART Shiloh Baptist Church *En route Private Residence
8:20 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

I
1
Jiloty, Lauren C <JilotyLC@state.gov> 1
Thursday, April 29, 2010 6:46 AM
H
Re: Number for cohns
B6
 --- 

Fyi before u talk to dai.
 --- 

From ops:
CG Shanghai provided the update below on Chinese President Hu's visit to the U.S. pavilion at the Shanghai Expo. For
your situational awareness:
SWO Chinese President Hu Jintao visited the USA Pavilion at the Shanghai Expo around 12:30 p.m. for 15-20 minutes
Thursday, April 29 (Shanghai time). USA Pavilion Commissioner General Jose Villarreal and Consul General Beatrice
Camp greeted President Hu, who was accompanied by Vice Premier Wang Qishan, Shanghai Expo Bureau officials, and a
large contingent of Chinese media. Hu then walked through the pavilion's initial section (the "Overture") where Vice
Premier Wang Qishan called attention to all the logos of the pavilion's sponsors. The Chinese president also viewed a
film clip of President Obama welcoming visitors to the pavilion and shook hands with about 10 of the nearly 80 U.S.
"student ambassadors" staffing the pavilion. Before departing, President Hu thanked Commissioner General Villarreal
and wished the USA Pavilion great success.
 --- 

BEIJING, April 29 (Reuters) - A knife-wielding man injured 28 children, two teachers and a security guard in a
kindergarten in eastern China, state media reported on Thursday, the fourth such stabbing case in recent weeks. Xu
Yuyuan, 47, an unemployed local man, broke into a classroom in Taixing city of eastern Jiangsu province on Thursday
morning, attacking the children with a 20 cm long knife, the official Xinhua news agency said. The injured children were
all about four years old, and five are in critical condition, it added. Xu has been jobless since he was fired from a local
insurance company in 2001, and then took part in pyramid selling schemes, Xinhua added. The attack is the fourth
reported school stabbing in China in recent weeks, and the rash of violence has prompted public calls for more measures
to protect students in a country where many couples only have one child. A man stabbed 16 students and a teacher at a
primary school in southern China on Wednesday, the same day that a former doctor was executed for stabbing to death
eight school children last month. "More concrete measures should be taken to make school the safest place," a
commentary in today's Beijing News said, calling for more serve punishment for these killers. Some Chinese people have
taken to the Internet to discuss the root causes of the increasing number of school tragedies
 --- 

B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
Please print the message below from Embassy Beijing which gives some further background
===
(From Embassy Beijing)
I was the notetaker AMB Huntsman asked me.
to give you a readout
AmEmbassy Beijing
04/28/2035
 --- 

We traded calls but I haven't heard back.
 --- 

8:00 am PHONE CALL w/CHINESE STATE COUNCILOR DAI BINGGUO
Private Residence
9:25 am DEPART Private Residence *En route Washington National Cathedral
9:30 am ARRIVE Washington National Cathedral
10:00 am FUNERAL SERVICE FOR DR DOROTHY HEIGHT
12:00 pm (t) Washington National Cathedral, 3101 Wisconsin Avenue, NW
12:05 pm (t) DEPART National Cathedral *En route State Department
12:15 pm (t) ARRIVE State Department
12:15 pm OFFICE TIME
1:15 pm Secretary's Office
1:15 pm MEETING w/JACK LEW AND RAJ SHAH
1:30 pm Secretary's Office
1:30 pm BILATERAL w/POLISH FM RADOSLAW SIKORSKI
2:00 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
2:00 pm PRESS PRE-BRIEF
2:05 pm Secretary's Office
2:05 pm JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/POLISH FM SIKORSKI
2:20 pm Treaty Room
2:30 pm OFFICE TIME
3:10 pm Secretary's Office
3:10pm MEETING w/MILDRED OTERO
3:20pm Secretary's Office
3:25 pm DEPART State Department *En route White House
3:30 pm ARRIVE White House
3:30 pm SMALL GROUP MEETING
4:15 pm White House Situation Room
4:30 pm WEEKLY MEETING w/POTUS
5:00 pm Oval Office
5:05 pm DEPART White House *En route State Department
5:10 pm ARRIVE State Department
5:30 pm HOST ANNUAL RECEPTION FOR THE DONORS TO THE
7:00 pm DIPLOMATIC RECEPTION ROOMS Adams/Franklin Rooms, 8th Floor
7:05 pm DEPART State Department *En route Grand Hyatt Hotel
7:15 pm ARRIVE Grand Hyatt Hotel
7:20 pm REMARKS AT THE AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE GALA
7:40 pm ANNUAL DINNER Grand Hyatt Hotel, 1300 H Street, NW
7:40 pm DEPART Grand Hyatt Hotel *En route Private Residence
7:55 pm ARRIVE Private Residence ###
 --- 

Pretty good stuff.
 --- 

Huma said you were asking about the goals and purposes of the NAM lunch Monday.
 --- 

Hrc - we are going to extend invites tomorrow morning if ok with you?
 --- 

Lauren - can u print for hrc?
 --- 

Yep
 --- 

7:45 am PHONE CALL w/PHILIPPE *Private Residence
8:30 am DEPART Private Residence *En route NBC Studio
8:50 am ARRIVE NBC Studio
9:00 am TAPED INTERVIEW w/NBC MEET THE PRESS' DAVID GREGORY
9:20 am NBC Studio
9:25 am DEPART NBC Studio *En route State Department
9:40 am ARRIVE State Department
9:55 am RECEPTION TO CELEBRATE THE OPENING OF THE USA
10:20 am PAVILLION AT THE 2010 SHANGHAI WORLD EXPO
Benjamin Franklin Room, 8th Floor
10:30 am BILATERAL w/KUWAITI DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER/FOREIGN
11:00 am MINISTER DR MOHAMMAD SABAH AL-SALEM AL SABAFI
Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
11:00 am PRESS PRE-BRIEF
11:05 am Secretary's Office
11:05 am JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/QATARI PRIME MINISTER AND
11:20 am FM DR MOHAMMAD al-SARAH al-SALEM AL SARAH Treaty Room
11:30 am OFFICE TIME
12:45 pm Secretary's Office
12:45 pm PRE-BRIEF MEETING
1:15 pm Secretary's Office
1:15 pm BILATERAL w/SPAMSH FM MIGUEL ANGEL MORATINOS
1:45 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Camera Spray in Treaty Room preceding.
2:00 pm ONE-ON-ONE MEETING w/AFGHAN PRESIDENTIAL ADVISOR
2:30 pm ASHRAF GRAM Secretary's Office
2:50 pm VIDEOS (4)
3:05 pm George Marshall Room, 76 Floor
3:10 pm 152ND FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER ORIENTATION CLASS
3:25 pm SWEARING-IN CEREMONY Dean Acheson Auditorium, First Floor
3:30 pm OFFICE TIME
4:15 pm Secretary's Office
4:20 pm DEPART State Department *En route Washington National Airport
4:40 pm ARRIVE Washington National Airport
5:00 pm DEPART Washington National Airport via US Airways Shuttle #2180
En route New York, NY
6:25 pm ARRIVE LaGuardia Airport
6:35 pm DEPART LaGuardia Airport *En route Private Residence ##4
 --- 

Would be happy to
 --- 

Valmoro, Lona J <ValmoroU©state.gov>
Friday, April 30, 2010 8:59 AM
Jiloty, Lauren C; H
Re: Schedule request
Yes I will get the number from Lauren and call this morning.
Lona Valmoro
S • ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

Lona has logged a message at her office
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 30, 2010 11:16 AM
H
remind me to discuss
 --- 


 --- 

Attached is a memo from MeJanne, Jen, and Rachel on maternal health and abortion.
 --- 

yes
 --- 

PIR <preines¦
Friday, April 30, 2010 6:14 PM
H
Re: Oil spill
I'm not
For a few reasons
First, calmness is not such a bad thing in these moments. Calm is not cavalier, which you weren't
Second, you're not the EPA administrator or Interior Secretary - nobody will see you as a front line cabinet officer on this
Third, if this is still out of control on Sunday, the administration has bigger problems
So I'm really not worried.
Here it is again which might allay your concerns
SECRETARY CLINTON: Well, David, I think that the President has ordered the departments that deal with this —
Homeland Security, Interior, Environmental Protection, Defense — to all immediately not only do everything possible to
mitigate the effects of this spill, but to try to come up with recommendations going forward. The first order of business,
however, is to try to get this spill under control, which has been, as you know, very difficult, and to prevent further
damage to the coastline along Louisiana to the fishing waters, to the wildlife. I think it does raise questions which the
President has said have to be answered. He put forth a very comprehensive approach that included the potential of
drilling off of our own shores. That is a national security concern because we have to do better to lessen our
dependence on foreign oil. But it has to be done safely. It can't be done at the risk of having to spend billions of dollars
cleaning up these spills. So as with so much in these difficult areas, it's going to require a balancing act.
 --- 

Of course.
Lona Valmoro
S ecial Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct) B6
 --- 

Well most of the weekend planes are the little planes. Calling mario now to see..
 --- 

Mario will know for sure but the only larger plane from the website seems to be the 10am. There is an 8am, 10am,
12pm, 2pm and 4pm tomorrow.
Lona Valmoro
t to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 

Haven't heard back from him
That's very possible. Could be a dc plane that need to ends up in ny for monday. III confirn.
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, April 2, 2010 9:16 PM
H; Doug Band
Fw: Thank You
For wjc fyi too
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

How did you like the man you, Doug and Justin met w last night? Are you coming out here today?
 --- 

I would stop on way to Tallin but have to get back after. Would that work?
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

This is so way cool. How can we give and get public credit? Let's be sure we get team Haiti upstairs next week for a big
Thank you!
 --- 

PIs call me at home thru Ops.
 --- 

Do they know Ellen Tauscher has been working on this?
 --- 

Prefer 9.
 --- 

Anything to add to this.
 --- 

Ok w me.
 --- 


 --- 

Have you talked w Mitchell and Feltmann yet?
 --- 

03-23-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips March 24, 2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue
Press Clips 03-25-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-26-2010.doc; Strategic
Dialogue Press Clips 03-27-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-28-2010.doc;
Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-29-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips
03-30-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-31-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue
Press Clips 03-22-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-23-2010.doc; Strategic
Dialogue Press Clips March 24, 2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-25-2010.doc;
Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-26-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips
03-27-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-28-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue
Press Clips 03-29-2010.doc; Strategic Dialogue Press Clips 03-30-2010.doc; Strategic
Dialogue Press Clips 03-31-2010.doc
Pls print for me and HAPPY EASTER!
 --- 

Pls add to my call list. He's in New York City working for the Methodist Church.
 --- 

Pls add Kris to may call list and draft note to him.
 --- 

I did not mention this because not sure how I felt about it, but if all agree it would help, I will call her.
 --- 

Same to you--Happy Easter!
 --- 

Can we talk at 7:30 am?
 --- 

PIs add as option.
 --- 

PIs add Henry Kissinger
 --- 

PIs print. T
 --- 

Ok. Can you pls call me thru ops?
 --- 

I agree this needs to be addressed. Just let me know how you decide to do so. Thx.
 --- 

Who was it?
 --- 

PIs add to call list.
 --- 

Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, April 9, 2010 7:42 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Hi Sis. My name is Roy Spence and I love you and
 --- 


 --- 

I'm trying to call the FM now.
 --- 

I can talk today before 10:45 and tomorrow early am, btw 7-9 or from noon to 1 or after 6. What works for you?
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

See below. Meeting with embassy folks now -- will report on that and dinner later.
 --- 

For Asst. Sec. Bob Blake?
 --- 

Thx
 --- 

Pls print two copies for me.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, April 13, 2010 9:14 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: If this poll holds, Labour has a majority. 1st debate thu. Sid
Just had drinks w Miliband who is still very worried. I have crossed fingers!
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, April 15, 2010 12:54 PM
'mtorrey
'balderstonkm@state.gov'
Re: 'Stone Harbour,LLC'
Marty--I'm copying Kris and asking that he connect you w Lou C de Baca whose in charge of the office responsible for
trafficking in State so you can explore ways of helping. Thx.
 --- 

Sure--I'll call him now.
 --- 

Ok. How about 7? Does that work for him? Can I call on my white phone which is now working?
 --- 

We have such a strong case. Can we try to get Sibelius and Vilsack on board?
 --- 

Yes.
 --- 

I'm free and at home in DC if you want to call about the article, the Middle East and Bosnia.
 --- 

Also, did you talk w Feltmann?
 --- 

ahead.
I can talk w him at 1 or 3.
 --- 

Did you ever ask77what else I can take? Should I call him directly? B6
 --- 

Influence Poll_Long Version.pdf
Pls print.
 --- 

B4
B5
 --- 

PIs print.
 --- 

PIs print.
 --- 

PIs tell Lael how pleased--and relieved--I am for her--and you! Now, take her away for a night or weekend, maybe the
Inn at Little Washington or Greenbriar or anywhere sans kids. H
 --- 

Yeah! Thx.
 --- 

So, what's the latest? It sounds contradictory and when does AF have to decide? Shall we take the 1 or 2 shuttle?
 --- 

Have we prepared a statement--w Bill or solo?
 --- 

Ok to go.
 --- 

PIs keep me updated on this project. Thx.
 --- 

ahead.
Pls schedule so I can get this done.
 --- 

Lynn--
I would love to see you but your days overlap w Karzai's visit so I will have to get that settled before I can confirm a
time but let's make it happen. So I'm copying Lona and Huma so we can start planning. Much love, H
 --- 

Finally! Thx for helping out.
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

Thx. And finally.
 --- 

Good work.
 --- 

I agree that this is a great idea and want to pursue. Thx.
 --- 

Any chance the date could B6
be changed?
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

So, what was the reaction?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, April 22, 2010 5:56 PM
'millscd@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: To Cheryl Mills: Rep. McGovern Letter to President Obama, DHS Secretary
Napolitano and Secretary of State Clinton
 --- 

What is the date of her event in December?
 --- 

I thought we did already.
 --- 

Rich, 'Given his recent letter to me, I need to call him soon. Can you provide suggested points for Iran and Israel? Thx.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

What about asking VMI to move to another day--is that out of the question?
 --- 

Good advice.
 --- 

I think AMS makes a strong case and we should discuss and decide how to proceed asap.
 --- 

— Declassify on: 04/23/2035
 --- 

Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 04/23/2035
RELEASE IN PART
B1,1.4(B),1.4(D),B6
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, April 24, 2010 6:26 PM •
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: FYI Kornblum... Sid
Pls print and have delivered to my house.
 --- 

I assume Steve et at got the readouts
 --- 

I still have not received the call sheet.
 --- 

So what's the verdict on the article?
 --- 

Thx for all your help especially since I know it's hard helping Methodists!
 --- 


 --- 

Barb--
I loved your comments at your re-election kickoff and hope you've scared off all the would-be opponents.
How's our friend, Martin, doing? I know he has a rematch when he should be reelected by acclamation for steering the
ship of state so well. Pls give him my best wishes.
And go get 'em! Your friend and booster, Hillary
 --- 

Sounds good. Thx.
 --- 

What is the state of play? I read the reports about And what do we do 1.4(B)
now? 1.4(D)
B1
on: 04/25/2035
 --- 


 --- 

I talked w him and will download tomorrow.
 --- 

Pls send Gen. Shalikashvili's numbers to Bill's staff because he asked me to have Bill call him.
Send all of Ron Dellums' numbers also to Bill.
Did I write Kris Durmer? If so, pls remove.
Pls add to list:
Susan Berger
Mark Weiner
Pls take off:
Albright
Lavrov
Spindelegger
Clark (ask Amb. Morningstar to call him to discuss oil shale in Europe) Saudabayev Holbrooke
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, April 26, 2010 8:14 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Ahmadinejad to speak at RevCon
Very.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, April 26, 2010 8:18 PM
'abedinh@state.gov'; 'JilotyLC@state.gov'; 'Russorv@state.gov'
Re: Bad news
PIs send a letter and add her to call list. I called yesterday and spoke w her son-in-law.
 --- 

Travel well. I'll look forward to hearing your report.
 --- 

Just saw the WaPo article w your photo and wondered whether that was on your list?
 --- 

Am I talking w him at 7:30?
1
 --- 

Is this the number you got?
 --- 

Thx. What did Mark Hyman tell you?
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

Correct to reflect Kuwaiti not Qatari FM.
 --- 

Can you fax it to my DC house?
 --- 

I'm worried that by Sunday my answer will seem too calm under the circumstances.
 --- 

Lona---Pls cancel the 9 and I'll let you know about tomorrow. I may have to take a later shuttle or even wait until
Sunday. Just not sure yet. Thx.
 --- 

Pls cancel the 8am but what are the times later and are any of them the large planes instead of the new littler ones?
 --- 

