What's happening in HRC in Geneva? Do I need to call anyone? Peres is asking me to personally call and I feel I should
but need update so I'm on the phone w Harold. --- 
No. I will do later. --- 
with the Secretary
As soon as I'm off call now. Tell ops to set up. --- 
I want to see the proposed statement. Happy to have it issued in someone else's name. But I think we need to do it. So
weigh in. Thx. --- 
I like the idea of it being issued by someone else but I still want to see it. Let's close this out. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, October 3, 2009 1:25 PM
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines
'cheryl.mills. 'pvervee
Re: Statement
I'm happy to have Melanne send it as letter to GOSL Ambassador and maybe UN Rep and only release to SL and related
outlets. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 3, 2009 3:05 PM
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines
'cheryl.mills 'pverveer
Re: Statement
B6
B5 --- 
Thx to all. --- 
I want to take the 3 pm shuttle and I want to meet w Jake and the Holbrooke team either at State or my house
whichever they prefer. --- 
Sure. I just got home. --- 
Yes. --- 
Ok. Does Eikenberry need to be secure? --- 
Given the AFP story today, have we delivered letter and given to appropriate press, now including AFP? --- 
Romulo said they welcome additional help so I told them to pls follow up w our Ambassador. I think you should follow
up as well.
On a very bad line, Wirajuda seemed to welcome our support, including helicopters and other navel assets. Pls followup
and have Navy do as well.
Let me know what else we need to do. --- 
Thx.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 4, 2009 11:07 AM
'crowleypj@state.gov'; 'preines
Re: Sri Lanka --- 
Can you fax to my house? And email to Huma for printing. --- 
Am I supposed to see him and others or not when I get back? --- 
I think it's quite good and covers most issues well. I think we need the additional lead on we discussed. Holbrooke wants
to talk--any feedback befote I call him? --- 
I have a bunch of them. What's best way to process? Should I do conf call w whoever need to be included? --- 
I'm taking 3 shuttle so should do in next half hour. Anything I need to know before calling Richard back? --- 
Can you fax to my DC house? If not, can you talk it thru w me now? --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, October 4, 2009 5:17 PM
'SBerger
Re:
Thanks, Sandy. This is very helpful. --- 
I'm finding this latest memo draft confusing in the way it is laid out. Pls call me. --- 
Pls add:
Mort Zuckerman
Ed Towns --- 
I told Andrew I would do the things he requested in his memo to me and he should talk to you about scheduling. --- 
When I was at UNGA, I had foreign leader facebooks that I would like to see. Can you find for me? --- 
Bartholomew
Marshall, Capricia P; Verveer, Melanne S
RELEASE IN PART
B6 --- 
Let's do Jack at the office. --- 
I love the ideas and will gladly do whatever you decide. --- 
Getting it on other sites like MTVu would be great. --- 
Pis print. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, October 7, 2009 6:46 AM
'stalbott
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Re: Rose....
Thx for passing on the feedback which I will share w her. Let's plan another catch up call. I'm copying my assistant,
Lauren, to try to schedule for us. --- 
 --- 
pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 8, 2009 7:15 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Troops --- 
Is this off? --- 
Pls print. --- 
Pis print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 8, 2009 8:01 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: WHI - powder coating
B6 --- 
B6
I will call ifyou are. --- 
Are you still up? Can you call? --- 
Pls print attachment. --- 
Agree about Why did leave? B6 --- 
We have tried before w/out success. Do you want to explore? --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 10, 2009 11:17 AM
'CampbelIKM@state.gov'; 'shapiroa@state.gov'
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'capriciamarshalli
Fw:
I would like to do something for Bill and think it could be a good followup to our Dialogue. What do you all think? --- 
Sounds good. --- 
to Samoa
Great job! --- 
Pls print for me. --- 
 --- 
 --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 10, 2009 5:16 PM
Checking in
I'm about to see --any messages? And have you heard the news about Gordon's eye? What does it mean? --- 
Thx. I just spoke w George from the plane before landing oin Dublin and I agree. Safe travels. --- 
Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 11, 2009 5:03 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Thanks so much for the talk --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 11, 2009 5:54 AM
Re: Checking in
Very good mtgs w Shaun and David M. Now on way to Chequers. Tally Ho. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, October 12, 2009 6:42 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Any feedback?
Pis tell to be sure the Brown letter is delivered asap. The delay may mean Robinson cancels his mtg for tonight. B6 --- 
Just landed. Let me know if you want to talk tonight. --- 
Ok. --- 
In about 10 minutes. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 15, 2009 7:28 PM
'pverveer
Re: Bravo!
Many miles to go, but thx so much. Will you be back next week? --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, October 15, 2009 9:10 PM
'pverveer
Re: Bravo!
WOW! That is HUGE. Can't wait to hear more. Thx.
Original Messa e --- 
It does! Who is and what is Meghann referring to? --- 
Pls print. --- 
Why would we draw lines at all? Invite everyone who is part of effort. --- 
That's very nice--high praise indeed, and in the Cong Record for prosperity! --- 
Let's discuss. --- 
It sounds good to me. -who, I believe, is a superstar. What time do you want B6
to talk today? I'm free until 9 and after 1 until 7. What works for you? --- 
Hi Tom--
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 17, 2009 6:15 AM
Would love to talk today
What times would work for you today? I'm free before 9am and after 1 until 7pm. Tomorrow I'm free before noon. Pls
let me know what works best for your schedule. Looking forward to catching up. HRC --- 
Calling now. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 17, 2009 9:30 AM
Re: Would love to talk today
Tom--I will call you after 2 today. Thx. --- 
RELEASE IN PART B6
I've heard that both the PM and the Finance Minister will resign next week. I'm copying Jon so he can tell Bill. --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 17, 2009 1:17 PM
mitchellg@state.gov'
'RudmanM@state.gov'; 'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Side letters
Dear George--
I have reviewed the drafts of the side letters and am ready to discuss at your convenience. You can reach me thru
•
State Ops anytime before 7pm today or tomorrow morning before noon. Thx. HRC --- 
Call and I can explain. --- 
Calling now. POTUS hasn't called yet. --- 
Yes--at 4:45. --- 
What about John Kerry--can he be included? --- 
Ask ops to call me when the call is ready. --- 
Ok --- 
Mitchell's team should review. --- 
Let's discuss this am. I'm up and freer until 11. --- 
Let's discuss asap. I'm free until 11 this am. --- 
Can do at 10. Can I get call sheet? --- 
I'm worried about the weather and taking the 9pm shuttle. Can we check w Mario and find out if I should leave earlier or
take the train? --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, October 18, 2009 9:40 AM
Huma Abedin; 'ValmoroU@state.gov'; 'JilotyLC@state.gov.
Ann Stock --- 
I agree it is worth considering. --- 
Talked w him. --- 
Ok. I will do that. Any other Members they want me to call? --- 
I spoke w Berman who asked that someone call Payne. Do you know if that is happening? --- 
I need to start a weekly mtg w the Undersecretaries. Could we do it at 9 on Wednesdays? --- 
Good. Who else was called? --- 
I have read it and agree it is must reading for all of us. Thx. --- 
Did you get any feedback from these? --- 
Can you check w Shaun and see what's happening? --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, October 18, 2009 10:09 PM
Can we talk tonight or tomorrow am?
Rahm--I have a few matters to discuss. Pis let me know what times would work for you. Thx--Hillary --- 
-
RELEASE IN PART B6
\ --- 
AMS and Jack----AMS's comments and edits about development are right on target. May I call you on a conference call
this am before 8am to discuss? If so, does 7:30 work for you? Thx. HRC --- 
I thought there was an event this Fall (maybe even honoring me?) But, did it not happen or did I not go? What
happened? --- 
I will call in--probably 7:35. --- 
Add to my call list:
-we should have numbers
we have #s --- 
Who is
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Tuesday, October 20, 2009 6:46 AM
'millscd@state.gov'
Re: Resume and Other Matters
RELEASE IN PART B6 --- 
I'm at home. Thx. --- 
This draft sounds didactic. That's ok in terms of substance--as far as I know--but it reads like an automatic weapon
which may be inevitable since there's so much material to cover. I just want to be sure the facts are right. --- 
Pis print--one copy to Jake, one to me. --- 
Pis print for me. --- 
Pls print for me. --- 
Can he help me talk w Micheletti? --- 
You should also get Bill and/or Farmer to call. Should we get any Congress Member to call? If so, who? --- 
Will you call him or do you want me to? --- 
Given how this conversation is going, I think we should wait on Zelaya. Micheletti does not seem at all willing to move. --- 
Boy, are they mad about our Ambassador! --- 
M agreed for Tom to come but I'm not sure the statement is appropriate right now. I'd rather confirm Tom's trip and tell
Zelaya tomorrow. Should Restrepo go too? And he asked why the US military would not give them access to radar that
would help them stop drug planes? --- 
What did you think of the photo and article? --- 
That is good news. Also, I'm around if you want to catch up until 4 when I leave for a wedding and to NY. --- 
What is Mike Posner's address and numbers? --- 
I also need infor for Maura. --- 
Jim jones just called to ask me if I can I meet at the WH from 11:30 to 12:30 on Monday? What needs to be moved? --- 
What's the latest? --- 
When can we talk again? I'll be tied up from 5-6:30. --- 
I just landed in Ny. Can I call you? --- 
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, October 25, 2009 11:57 AM
'millscd@state ov'
Re: - More When We Speak
B5
B6 --- 
Do we have good answers for the Blackwater allegations? What exactly are they? And what's been said before? --- 
— Reason: 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 10/25/2019
RELEASE IN PART
B1,1.4(D), B5 --- 
There's a lot of good work in these papers and I thank everyone who helped. I have the following questions:
Why is there overlap btw what we sent over to the NSC already and what we have compiled into the larger
presentation? By my review, Tabs 1, 3, and 6 are in both packages. If we want to include these in both, we need an
annotated index that lists all the papers not just the main tabs. --- 
Thanks so much. I don't know what the NSC has or will read so we need to think of this submission as representing our
views for historical purposes. --- 
Is there any way to reschedule so I have more time around the interviews and photo shoot before going to WH? --- 
RELEASE IN PART B6
Yeah!!! Thank you soo much. --- 
Pls print two copies. --- 
Ok. --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Sid--
I'm copying Doug and Justin who are travelling w Bill since he will be in Europe and may have some ideas about what
could be done, and asking that they share it w him and then get back to you. If I have any other ideas I will let you know. --- 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Fyi --- 
 --- 
Tom--
Thanks to you, Craig and Dan for making this happen. I am very proud of our team and your leadership, and I'd like to
personally thank you all when I'm back. I'm copying Lona so she can start to schedule a time for that.
I'm anxious to hear the details. Maybe now we'll get you confirmed or, at least, canonized! Pls thank one and all,
especially Craig, for a tour de force. HRC --- 
As I have said repeatedly, I do not want to see Palau shortchanged. I do not know whether this assessment is accurate,
so can I pls get an update and recommendation about to take care of this? --- 
H <hroc117@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, October 31, 2009 3:12 AM
'sbwhoeop
•Re: Memo on Cameron explosion in Europe, may affect Blair. Sid
That is so revealing--and wacky--but it perhaps leaves a very small oipening for Tony. What do you think? Happy
Halloween from Abu Dhabi! --- 
Wow! Tell dd I was really flattered and Happy Halloween from Abu Dhabi! --- 
Happy Halloween from Abu Dhabi! I would be happy to meet w the machinist members but I'm not sure who they are!
I'm copying Lona to ask her to call you to get details so she can follow up. I hope we can catch up soon! Lots of treats
(and no tricks!) for you and David! --- 
How do you suggest we respond? --- 
Have they landed yet? Was Congress notified? --- 
 --- 
His conference is oct 20-22nd. Given that its potentially between 2 big trips, we haven't done anything about it yet. --- 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Fyi --- 
8:15 am DEPART Private Residence
En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY MEETING w/SENIOR STAFF
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am THANK YOU TO UNGA STAFF
9:25 am Ben Franklin Room
9:30 am PRE-BRIEF MEETING
9:45 am Secretary's Office
9:45am PVT MTG w/ SE MITCHELL AND SA'EB EREKAT
10:15 am Secretary's Office
10:15 am OFFICE TIME
11:30 am Secretary's Office
11:30 am BILATERAL w/ORGANIZATION OF THE ISLAMIC (OIC)
12:00 pm CONFERENCE SECRETARY GENERAL EKMELEDDIN IHSANOGLU
Secretary's Conference Room *Camera Spray in Treaty Room preceding.
12:15 pm HOLD FOR HUMA/OFFICE TIME
1:00 pm Secretary's Office
1:00 pm MEETING w/ HOLBROOKE TEAM
4:00 pm Principals Conference Room 7516/SCI Area
4:00 pm MEETING w/CHERYL
5:00 pm Secretary's Office
5:00 pm OFFICE TIME
7:00 pm Secretary's Office
7:20 pm DEPART State Department *En route Washington National Airport
7:40 pm ARRIVE Washington National Airport
8:00 pm DEPART Washington National Airport via US Airways Shuttle #2186
En route New York, NY
9:20 pm ARRIVE New York, New York-LaGuardia Airport
9:30 pm DEPART New York-LaGuardia Airport
En route Private Residence
10:15 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
### --- 
You ought to bring it to your speech in N Ireland --- 
Abbas call confirmed forlorn.
Pdb is coming at 830 --- 
We're still pulling material for you, but in them meantime i wanted to let you know the following (which I'll
send as full documents later):
1)State Department Human Rights Report 2003 discusses the problem of rape in custody in Sri Lanka
2) Amnesty International issued a full report on Rape in Sri Lanka in 2002 (with specific cases cited and a
general discussion of the problem being on the increase)
3) UNHCR website has a a page devoted to rape in Sri Lanka and references the Amnesty International Report
4)Asia Human Rights Commission issued a report titled: Sri Lanka: Systematic Detention, Torture, Rape and
Murder as Weapon of War (2000)
I checked the BCL that came from Melanne's office with this information. It was cleared by JO, PRM, P, D/L,
D/S, AF, and assorted others.
The problem is that it was not sent to SCA or East Asia and should have been. But the rest of the building
signed off on it.
Also, it is clear that the reference in the Security Council statement referred to rapes in the past.The first
reference is to rape in the DRC and Sudan. Two sentences later we say:
"We've seen rape used as a tactic of war before in Bosnia, Burma, Sri Lanka, and elsewhere. "
Can you download these documents if I email them to you? Otherwise I can try to paste them into emails. --- 
with the Secretary
Can they call the house? --- 
Operative language / Sri Lanka:
The Government generally respected the human rights of its citizens; however,
there were serious problems in some areas. There were no reports of security
forces committing politically motivated killings and no reports of
disappearances; however, the military and police reportedly tortured, killed
and raped detainees. --- 
RELEASE IN PART
B5,B6
I'm not sure who's recommending what to you, I'm just coming into this at the 11th hour and not sure of the facts --- 
PIR <preines(
Saturday, October 3, 2009 11:57 AM
H
Re: Sri Lanka
So all's well that ends well. Enjoy your weekend.
On 10/3/09, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
> I want to see the proposed statement. Happy to have it issued in
> someone else's name. But I think we need to do it. So weigh in. Thx.
> --- 
Jeff wanted you to know before you 1pm abbas call:
1.4(B
1.4(D
B1
— Declassify on: 10/02/2024 --- 
So you see the traffic when I stepped in - scroll down to pj.
Cdm --- 
We are waiting for DRL to clear the language. I will call Mike and/or Karen now. Everyone else is comfortable. Then we
will get it to you and put it out in Melanne's voice. You'll have something very soon.
PJ --- 
That's the best plan --- 
I am in back-to-back meetings on Friday, October 2, and will have only limited access to e-mails. --- 
almost there with the final draft. PJ will send to you.
In a message dated 10/3/2009 1:25:13 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time, HDR22@clintonemail.com writes:
I'm happy to have Melanne send it as letter to GOSL Ambassador and maybe UN Rep and only release to SL
and related outlets. --- 
Crowley, Philip J <CrowleyPJ@state.gov>
RELEASE IN PART
B6
Here is what we have come up with as agreed language from Bob, Eric, Mike, Melanne, Lissa and me. This can be used
for the letter and for press guidance. Melanne will send a letter to the GOSL and perhaps the UN Permrep. We will ask
the Post to release the letter to journalists in Colombo once it is received. I will schedule a press briefing at the Foreign
Press Center early this week, which will attract a good number of Asian journalists, and make sure the question is asked
so we can put it in proper context. We will have it for guidance in the Main State briefing if asked. PJ
BEGIN TEXT
Questions have been raised regarding remarks by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on September 30 before the United
Nations Security Council on the adoption of a resolution to combat sexual violence in armed conflict. In her statement,
she said that we have seen rape used as a tactic before in a number of countries, including Sri Lanka.
Regarding the Secretary's reference to Sri Lanka in her address, we want to be clear. Over the course of the difficult
conflict between the government of Sri Lanka and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), stretching into this
decade, the State Department as well as credible human rights organizations reported numerous cases of rape and
sexual violence in Sri Lanka, particularly acts committed against women held in detention by the government. This was
the basis for the Secretary's statement. At the same time, in the most recent phase of the conflict, from 2006 to 2009,
though we remained deeply concerned about reports of extrajudicial killings, disappearances and mistreatment of
detainees, we have not received reports that rape and sexual abuse were used as tools of war, as they clearly have in
other conflict areas around the world. We hope that this clarification puts the issue in its proper context.
These questions should not detract from the specific actions that Sri Lanka needs to take now. With the end of the
military conflict, Secretary Clinton believes strongly that Sri Lanka must focus to the future and move forward on the
promotion of peace and the protection of human rights. The government of Sri Lanka should release more than 250,000
displaced persons who are still confined in camps, and lead a process of genuine political and social reconciliation. The
United States stands ready to assist and support the people of Sri Lanka with these critical challenges. --- 
Crowley, Philip J <CrowleyR1@state.gov>
Saturday, October 3, 2009 3:15 PM
H; preines
cheryl.mills
Re: Statement
RELEASE IN PART
B5,B6 --- 
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
B1
Jeffrey Feltman --- 
Sorry you had to go through this.
Sent via BlackBerry from T-Mobile --- 
Feltman, Jeffrey D <FeltmanJD@state.gov>
Saturday, October 3, 2009 4:30 PM
H; Mitchell, George J
Re: Phone call report
B6
Copying in the email the Senator usually checks on the weekend. (Senator, the message below is from the Secretary.)
1
1
B --- 
Thanks. The Egyptian document has been received and is being translated. We'll review it tonight and tomorrow morning, will consult
with the Pals through our Consul General, and then I'll talk with Gen. S again. We'll keep you advised. --- 
Update 2009-10-02.docx
Oscar, can u pls print for hrc tonite
Thx. --- 
Sounds good. --- 
Ok we can make that work. --- 
Cc: Berger, Samuel R.
HRC: I wasn't satisfied by my answer to your question about how to gain leverage over the
Pakistanis to move them to more aggressively pursue AQ. I've thought about it some more and,
while I have no silver bullet, here are some further thoughts.
-- My impression is that the Pakistanis have been more cooperative lately in assisting us target some
AQ in Pakistan and that, where they hold back, it is less a function of affinity toward AQ and more
about with whom AQ is imbedded..
-- In particular, they seem to be more reluctant to target AQ where it is nestled with groups they want
to cultivate in the event we "leave" Afghanistan and they need influence there. They have seen that
before and will hedge their bets.
-- So the first point is that we have to address the reason why they are holding back. If we can
disabuse them of the perception that we are leaving Afghanistan, it will be easier to get the Pakistanis
to go after AQ in sanctuaries provided by groups which would be part of a future Afghanistan
dominated by the Taliban.
-- Second, I believe that coercive measures are more likely to be effective if they are targeted against
military leaders who give support to AQ and its allies. Assuming we have adequate intelligence, we
can go after bank accounts, travel and other reachable assets of individual Pakistani officers, raising
the stakes for those supporting the militants without creating an inordinate backlash . Blunter
measures of coercion, like conditioning our assistance, are more likely to be counterproductive. Given
the level of distrust for us among the Pakistani people, they would see this as another sharp swing of
the U.S. pendulum which would harden their attitudes and make greater cooperation very difficult for
the Pakistani people to accept.
-- There may be greater leverage in giving the Pakistanis incentives to be more aggressive. Of
course, the military's calculation is most important. I'm not sure what is on their shopping list these
days but we would need to balance what would move the needle on AQ against undercutting our
effort to get them to shift their strategic focus away from India. . At the same time, we can be as
forward leaning as possible in support of their counterinsurgency capabilities (equipment, training,
whatever material, intelligence and other assistance we can give them if they move into Wazeristan --
including relief for displaced persons). If they finally take that step, we can do all that is possible to
demonstrate that our arrows are aligned with theirs..
-- On the civilian side, their desire for greater control over how Kerry-Lugar money can be used can
be played to our strategic advantage. If we give them a greater sense that they are directing the use
of these funds -- without greatly undercutting their effectiveness -- it strengthens our position to press
them on AQ.
-- Finally, there is the defining relationship with India. Are there measures that the Indians could take
that would reduce Pakistani anxieties about the Indian front and thus better enable them to focus on
threats to the East, including both AQ and anti-Indian militant groups like LET? Are there confidence
building measures such as information sharing on troop movements that would both reduce
uncertainty and support a Pakistani public narrative for a shift in emphasis from India to the militancy?
To the extent India seeks to have Pakistan move more vigorously against the militants, they could
see such steps as advancing their interests. This is tricky territory but may be worth pursuing.
Sandy --- 
 --- 
Indonesians cannot do 9. Asking for 10am instead. Philippines will likely be right after.
Hope that's ok. --- 
Eikenberry has asked if u can talk at 9am?
Then philippines 9:45 and indonesia immediately after.
Ok? --- 
FYI --- 
I'm at the office reviewing the first draft of the paper so will call in a bit. --- 
On secure --- 
 --- 
I have to let PJ respond, because I honestly don't know what was executed --- 
Pi, correct me if I'm wrong but I think the letter text was finalized, but not yet produced/delivered. If so, we will make
sure that happens asap, and shared with AFP (who is the only outlet I've seen on this today) --- 
PIR
Sunday, October 4, 2009 9:58 AM
H
Re: Sri Lanka
I'm going to ride herd on this to make sure it gets done asap, and I'll give it to afp myself. --- 
Letter will be done and signed by Melanne by 11am, Bob Blake will get it to the SL FM through the Ambassador, and PA
will get it to AFP and other interest parties. So by noon everyone who needs it will have it --- 
FYI --- 
Crowley, Philip J <CrowleyPJ@state.gov>
Sunday, October 4, 2009 10:30 AM
H; preine
Re: Sri Lanka
Working it now; will provide to media as soon as we have delivery confirmatio. Should be by early this afternoon. RI --- 
Thank you Madame Secretary the information you received from Jakarta is consistent with what we have now heard
from Indonesians. Scott and I just held an agency wide review of our collective Pacific wide efforts to date and where we
both need more information and where we are prepared to do more. Our team is doing a full accounting of every effort
to date and we will have this to you by mid afternoon. We are awaiting word from Luzon and I anticipate that we will
need to do much more there and in parts of Indonesia in the days ahead. We will be in touch with our interagency
colleagues throughout the day and will update you again accordingly. Thank you for your efforts and the readouts. I will
also do follow ups as you request. Best Kurt --- 
 --- 
We'll set up a call so all can join -- what time? • --- 
Not from me - he has put in edits - tracking Jake down now to make sure nothing else from him --- 
We hadn't gathered people yet only cause jake and cdm hadn't said to move forward But checking in now --- 
From your clips:
US Responds To Sri Lanka Protest Over Clinton Remark (AFP) Monday, October 5, 2009 AFP
WASHINGTON (AFP) - The United States, responding to protests from Sri Lanka over remarks by Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton, said it had no recent evidence of women being raped while in Sri Lankan government custody.
In a letter addressed to Sri Lanka's Minister of Foreign Affairs Rohitha Bogollagama, the State Department noted that the
US government and international human rights groups over the years had detailed "numerous cases of rape and sexual
violence in Sri Lanka, particularly acts committed against women held in detention by the government."
However, the letter signed by Melanne Verveer, ambassador at large for global women's issues at the State Department
said that "in the most recent phase of the conflict, from 2006 to 2009 ... we have not received reports that rape and
sexual abuse were used as tools of war, as they clearly have in other conflict area around the world."
"We hope that this clarification puts the issue in its proper context," the letter said, adding that Washington remains
concerned about extrajudicial killings, disappearances and detainee abuse in Sri Lanka.
"Secretary Clinton believes that Sri Lanka must focus to the future and move forward on the promotion of peace and the
protection of human rights," the letter said.
Sri Lanka lodged its protest with the US embassy in Colombo over the remarks made by Clinton last month to the United
Nations Security Council.
"We've seen rape used as a tactic of war before in Bosnia, Burma and Sri Lanka and elsewhere," the US secretary of state
had said during a resolution calling for an end to sexual violence in armed conflict, according to published reports of
Clinton's remarks.
Her comments sparked an outcry across Sri Lanka, where government forces in May crushed Tamil Tiger rebels after
decades of fighting.
Colombo faced condemnation for its handling of the final stages of the war against Tiger rebels and managed to stave
off a Security Council resolution calling for war crimes investigations thanks to the vetoes of China and Russia.
The United Nations has said that over 7,000 civilians perished in the first four months of intense fighting this year.
Sri Lanka is now facing international pressure to free 250,000 ethnic Tamil civilians who managed to escape the fighting
but are now held in internment camps while they are screened to see whether they were rebels.
B6 --- 
briefed a group of wonks at Brookings tonite. Superbly impressive & persuasive. Low-key mastery & confidence.
Congrats on having her on your team & leading these negs. --- 
The only thing anyone yelled at you was "WE LOVE YOU HILLARY" --- 
Ok we will follow up. --- 
Yes I have a copy. --- 
Sounds good -- and I apologize about all of the private meetings today, I should have done a separate schedule for you.
2:30pm is Ken Feinberg.
4pm is Lou D'Allesandro dropping by for a quick hello.
6pm is General Keane and he knows we will get back to him about location. 6pm is the earliest he can do today. --- 
Will do. --- 
H RC:
FYI. This is my point.
cdm --- 
fyi --- 
See below my email --- 
sbwhoeop
Tuesday, October 6, 2009 2:11 PM
H
Note from Joe Wilson... Sid
Hillary: I'm passing on a note below from Joe Wilson. Sid
Dear Madame Secretary,
It was great to see you, albeit briefly, at the US —Africa business summit. Your speech spoke to the entire
audience as I'm sure you felt from the response. I also appreciate your offer to meet with me the next time we
are both in Washington and would like to take you up on it.
I am now working with a serious American engineering and construction company, Symbion Power, that has
been hugely successful in Iraq and Afghanistan (on fixed cost contracts). It specializes in power plants,
substations and transmission towers and lines. It made its name in Iraq constructing transmission towers and
pulling lines across al Anbar province at the height of the war there. Its business model is to partner with local
companies and to train local employees to do the construction, maintenance and repair, and to provide the
security. In Iraq and Afghanistan they established training centers and graduated over 3000 certified
linemen. They partner with an American Lineman College in Idaho to provide the ed ucation and
certification. We think the model is well adapted to Africa and have already begun work on a training center in
Tanzania, where we will be bidding on all of the upcoming MCC financed power generation and distribution
projects. I have asked Sid to pass a memory stick with a four minute video that explains what Symbion does
and how it does it.
I tell you all this, not to tout Symbion (about which I am very enthusiastic) but let you know that we are doing
much of what you have been advocating in your public comments about human capacity development. The fact
that we have been successful on fixed cost contracts also speaks to your criticism of American companies that
have been milking the government with their cost plus contracts for the last nine years. Our goal is to
demonstrate that an emphasis on developing local talent is not just the right thing to do but is also good
business.
I look forward to seeing you the next time I am in Washington. I know how precious your time is, and very
much appreciate your generosity.
With warm regards and best wishes.
Joe --- 
More --- 
FYI --- 
Thanks, Also, Sergei Kislyak told me last evening that the change in administrations here + the missile defense decision
made it much easier for Russia to be helpful on Iran last week. Re connecting, I'm off this evening to Rhodes, Athens,
Paris, Oslo, & Istanbul, but I can be reached via my office as I bounce around. Cheers, S. --- 
FYI B6 --- 
Fyi --- 
It actually happened yesterday and we found out after the fact. Todd said he would send you a read out. --- 
 --- 
Hillary: FYI: I found this one of the most sensible and informed brief articles on Afghanistan. Patrick Cockburn, of
the London Independent, is one of the best informed on-the-ground journalists. He was almost always correct on
Iraq. Sid
Patrick Cockburn: To say this war must be won
in a year is nonsense
http://www.independent co.uk/opinion/commentators/patrick-cockbum-to-say-this-war-must-be-won-
in-a-year-is-nonsense-1799296.html
Thursday, 8 October 2009
SPONSORED LINKS:
Eight years ago I was standing on a hill 50 miles north of Kabul watching the flashes in the night sky
as the US air strikes started again st the Taliban front line. There were a few ineffective puffs of fire
from Taliban anti-aircraft guns which could do nothing against the bombs and missiles raining down
on them.
It was a strange war to cover, not least because so little real fighting took place. The reputation of the
Afghan fighting man is partly based on agilely joining the winning side at the right moment. In the
meantime they don't fight too hard for anybody and try to avoid getting killed.
The US and British press mostly reported the war of 2001 as a real military conflict and rather missed
the point that the Taliban had just gone home. I remember visiting the former headquarters of a
Taliban armoured brigade in the city of Ghazni south west of Kabul. The tanks and armoured vehicles
had all been smashed to pieces by American bombs, but when I asked local people how many men
the Taliban had lost, I was told "none at all. They could see what was going to happen so they just
ran away."
Just as the US military victory of 2001 was overstated, so eight years later is the sense of military
crisis which is being busily stoked by Gen Stanley A McChrystal, the top US and NATO commander
in Afghanistan. In Washington military officials are quoted as saying that the war will be won or lost in
the next twelve months.
This is nonsense. The Taliban have been able to advance so rapidly in the last three years because
they have Pakistani backing and because of the spectacular political and military weakness of
President Hamid Karzai's government. But the Taliban draw all their strength from the Pashtun
community, which makes up 42 per cent of the Afghan population. They will have great difficulty
advancing into areas occupied by the other 58 per cent of the population where there is a Tajik,
Hazara or Uzbek majority.
Squads of six or eight Taliban on motorcycles might be harassing the roads around Kabul, but there
is no need to treat them as if they were North Vietnamese divisions at the gates of Saigon in 1975.
The strength of the Taliban is that not that they can take and hold territory, but that they can inflict
quite small military losses on the US which are politically unacceptable back home. They can do this
through roadside bombs, something the US army speaks as i f it were a new device, though it was
being used against the British army in Ireland in 1921. If the Americans and British try to hold territory
supposedly cleared of Taliban with penny packets of troops then these are vulnerable to being
suddenly targeted by the other side.
It is to prevent this happening that Gen McChrystal has asked for an extra 40,000 soldiers. But
Afghans tell me that more foreign troops will simply mean more violence and dead Afghans as more
of the country becomes a battlefield. It is absurd to imagine that the world's most heavily equipped
military force is not going to use its weapons when it comes under attack. Polls also show that
Taliban support is at its height in just those areas where Afghan civilians have been killed by
American shells and bombs.
So what should Obama do? First of all he has time. He is not going to win or lose the war in the next
year. Like it or not he is stuck with Mr Karzai and he should get used to the idea. It is reasonable to
suggest helping to produce a larger Afghan army and police force but this cannot be done overnight.
Most military recruits are there for the money and are too malnourished even to wear American flack
jackets. Speeding up security training f or Afghan police meant over the summer that terrified men,
often on heroin, were being sent to man dangerous and isolated police posts with just three weeks
training. Many of them did not come back.
One way Obama could strengthen the Afghan army and police is to make sure their men are paid
properly. In Kabul many facilities are being guarded by policemen earning $70 a month, which is not
enough to live on unless supplemented with bribes. This contrasts with $250,000 a year paid to
foreign consultants who lurk inside heavily defended compounds. Paying the Iraqi army properly
really did make a difference in Baghdad and might do the same in Afghanistan where 40 per cent of
men are unemployed. A difference is that Iraqi oil revenues last year were $62 billion while the
Afghan government is dependent on foreign aid.
The US and its allies will have to pay. It is carefully thought out measures like this that Obama should
be considering and not the panicky dispatch of US Special Forces or tens of thousand of more troops. --- 
Just spoke with her — says things are pretty grim. Abbas is in very precarious shape because of a combination of
Goldstone (and them handling it badly), the Hamas prisoner release, and Egypt ramming reconciliation with problematic
terms. Israelis recognize in principle that he needs help, but they won't budge on anything. --- 
Sure, just call --- 
I spoke to Ann and she sd that you always have the Trustee box to use in each House.
She cannot hold a box for The Secretary of State use only not - bt can further discussions with KC on this
She advises that we need to give advance notice -
There are 4 seat in the Eisenhower that are complimentary and then 4 that would need to be purchased for nominal fee
(seems like a really silly policy) The same for Opera and in the Symphony there are 12 all complimentary. I think if we
begin to use the box on a regular basis we can work with them on the cost issues.
This could be a lovely way to serve many special guests.
Let me know if you want to begin a process of reviewing the KC calendar and start a list of recommendations to invite.
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T --- 
Also - Ann is sending the number of people you have to include for the KC Honors dinner at the State Dept. She
confirmed they pay for the evening but was reluctant to commit to decorations - she will check.
Sent via BlackBerry by AT&T --- 
Cc: Sullivan, Jacob J
Madam Secretary,
Attached and below please find a brief backgrounder on the United States Institute of Peace. Please let me know if you
would like any further information.
Thanks,
Mike
United States Institute of Peace: Background
Proposals for the creation of a government "peace" agency stretch as far back as a proposal in 1792 to create a "Peace
Office" on par with the War Department. Between 1935 and 1976 over 140 bills were introduced in Congress to
establish peace-related agencies, departments, bureaus, and committees of Congress. In 1979 Congress established the
Commission on Proposals for the National Academy of Peace and Conflict Resolution. In 1981, the Commission — known
as the Matsunaga Commission for its head, Senator Spark Matsunaga — recommended the creation of a national peace
academy. In 1984, President Reagan signed the United States Institute of Peace Act and the first meeting of USIP's Board
of Directors took place in 1986.
The USIP Act established "an independent, nonprofit, national institute to serve the people and the Government
through the widest possible range of education and trainings, basic and applied research opportunities, and peace
information services on the means to promote international peace and the resolution of conflicts among the nations and
peoples of the world without recourse to violence."
USIP is an independent agency, funded by Congress, which serves as an intersection between those involved in policy
research, fieldwork, and practitioners. More than 70 USIP policy experts conduct research on a wide variety of country-
specific and cross-cutting functional issues. Some examples of USIP activities include:
® Working in countries such as Iraq, Sudan, Nigeria, Uganda, Pakistan, and Afghanistan to mediate and facilitate
dialogue among parties in conflict, promote the rule of law, strengthen civil society and education systems, and
educating the public through events, films, and other outreach.
O USIP has given out $58 million in grants for over 1,700 peacebuilding projects in 76 countries.
® USIP hosts standing working groups of experts and practitioners on a variety of issues, including Sudan, Syria,
Korea, Iran, Iraq, and Haiti.
® USIP has facilitated a number of task forces, including the Iraq Study Group and the recent Congressional
Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States, chaired by William Perry.
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-1709 --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, October 19, 2009 6:27 PM
H
FW: Resume and Other Matters
FYI --- 
 --- 
RudmanM@state.gov --- 
Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Saturday, October 10, 2009 6:13 AM
H 1.4(B)
1.4(D)
B1
S/E Mitchell spoke to EGIS Chief Omar Solimon on October 5, 2009.
10/10/2024 --- 
 --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Tuesday, October 20, 2009 7:35 AM
H
RE: Resume and Other Matters B6
worked for John P during our administration - you'd recall him if you saw him --- 
Capricia Marshall <capriciamarshall
Tuesday, October 20, 2009 8:12 AM
Huma Abedin; H
Fwd. --résumé
pdf
This is who is interested in attending Georgetown next year. She is clearly a
good student. She is hoping for your support.
Forwarded message --- 
Yes - and it is. --- 
TO HOLD RUN-OFF --- 
FYI --- 
The facts will be right. Meanwhile, we're working to make it more of a semiautomatic. --- 
 --- 
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am PRE-BRIEF FOR WEEKLY POTUS MEETING
9:30 am Secretary's Office
9:30 am BI-WEEKLY MEETING w/MANAGEMENT TEAM
10:00 am Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
10:00 am MEETING w/GEORGE MITCHELL
10:40 am Secretary's Office
10:45 am DEPART State Department *En route Renaissance Mayflower Hotel
10:55 am ARRIVE Renaissance Mayflower Hotel
11:00 am SPEECH ON NON-PROLIFERATION HOSTED BY THE
12:15 pm U.S. INSTITUTE FOR PEACE East Room, Renaissance Mayflower Hotel
12:20 pm DEPART Renaissance Mayflower Hotel *En route State Department
12:30 pm ARRIVE State Department
12:30 pm OFFICE TIME
1:15 pm (t) Secretary's Office
1:15 pm (t) PHONE CALL w/SOUTH AFRICAN FM NKOANA-MASHABANE
1:30 pm (t) Secretary's Office
1:45 pm DROP-BY LUNCHEON HOSTED BY A/S CAMPBELL
2:00 pm Webster Room, 8th Floor
2:15pm PHONE CALL w/ISRAELI FM AVIGDOR LIEBERMAN
2:30pm Secretary's Office
2:30 pm OFFICE TIME
3:00 pm Secretary's Office
3:00 pm MEETING NY/WILLIAM HAGUE, MEMBER OF BRITISH PARLIMENT
3:30 pm AND SHADOW FOREIGN SECRETARY Secretary's Office
3:30 pm OFFICE TIME
4:00 pm Secretary's Office
4:00 pm SWEARING-IN CEREMONY FOR OES ASSISTANT SECRETARY
4:20 pm ICERRI-ANN JONES Benjamin Franklin Room, 8th Floor
4:45 pm BUREAU BRIEFING ON COUNTER TERRORISM
5:45 pm Secretary's Conference Room
6:00 pm DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence ### --- 
PIR <preine!
Wednesday, October 21, 2009 7:05 PM
H
'Burns.stride
Re: Jim Wallis Interview Request...
Will do
Burns, will email you separately --- 
Fyi - the 730am michelleti call hasn't been confirmed yet. We offered the time but haven't heard back. Hopefully we will
know in the morning before 7am. --- 
You can ignore earlier email. Micheletti just confirmed. --- 
sbwhoeop
Thursday, October 22, 2009 12:02 AM
H
fyi: Hague report and DeMint... Sid
H: Here's the Guardian account of Hague's post-meeting press briefing. And below that the article on DeMint. S
William Hague addresses US fears over Tories'
EU allies
•Hillary Clinton 'told antisemitism allegations are a smear'
•Shadow foreign secretary opposes Tony Blair as EU leader
• Ewen MacAskill in Washington and Nicholas Watt
• quardian.co.uk, Thursday 22 October 2009 00.33 BST
William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, yesterday defended the Conservatives' alliance with far-right parties in
Europe during a meeting in Washington with the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton.
Hague sought to reassure Clinton about the Conservatives' partners, some of whose members have taken part in
commemoration services for the Waffen-SS in Latvia and questioned the need to apologise for an anti-Jewish pogrom in
Poland.
The shadow foreign secretary, who said he had an excellent meeting with Clinton, told her the accusations were part of a
smear campaign by the Guardian and others.
The row has overshadowed Hague's visit to Washington intended as part of the Conservative preparations for taking
power.
Speaking to the media afterwards, Hague said the behaviour of Michal Kaminski, of Poland's Law and Justice party, was
not consistent with anyone who was antisemitic. As for the Latvian party in the Conservatives' European alliance, Hague
said: "This is a respectable party in Latvia ... To suggest it is antisemitic or neo-Nazi is ludicrous."
Jewish groups in the US and in Europe have expressed anger over the Tory links.
The state department was careful not be drawn into the issue, not wanting to be accused of interference in UK politics or
issues relating to the European parliament. A spokesman said: "I can say that the two had a good, wide-ranging
discussion on a broad range of issues, but can't get into details or substance of that discussion."
Hague tried to persuade Clinton that the Conservatives' Euroscepticism would not necessarily mean Britain would play a
lesser role in European affairs. The US favours the EU acting in unison over Iran and other issues.
Hague said he had raised the allegations of antisemitism with Clinton at the end of a 40-minute discussion on Iran, the
Balkans, the Middle East, Northern Ireland, Afghanistan and climate change.
"No one has raised with me all day the other issue, of the parties in our grouping, but I raised that with secretary of state
Clinton because of press reports in your newspaper [the Guardian] and others in case she had seen those," Hague said.
"I have assured her they are mainstream parties of the centre-right ... The Conservative party rejects what it regards as a
smear campaign against some of its members."
He noted that Kaminski made his first speech in the European Parliament highlighting the problem of anti-semitism in
Europe and had just completed a successful visit to Israel. "These are not the habits of someone who is anti-semitic,"
Hague said.
As for the Latvians, of the six governing parties, "five of them have members involved in the type of commemoration that
have been criticised." Some were members of the Conservatives' previous alliance, the European People's party.
On Conservative Euroscepticism, Hague said: "I always put the case to all American leaders that it is important to
distinguish between Europe's institutions and its capacity to act ... I have explained to her and others that she will be find
a Conservative government very active and activist from the very beginning in European affairs. "
Later he said it would be a mistake for Tony Blair to become EU president. He has previously said in private that Blair
would be appointed "over my dead body".
http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2009-10-10/irm-contras-scary-sequel
Iran-Contra's Scary Sequel
by Art Levine
The Daily Beast
October 10, 2009 I 6:55pm
Republicans have opened a new front against Obama, a southern front, south of the border—Latin America.
The clique of conservatives that has operated since the Iran-Contra scandal and held key policy offices in the
George W. Bush administration is waging war against Obama in part through Sen. Jim DeMint of South
Carolina.
A freshman on the Foreign Relations Committee with no previously known expertise on Latin America, DeMint
is best known for boasting that health care would be the "Waterloo" that will "break" Obama. He recently
provoked a nasty spat within the committee by requesting funding to travel to Honduras to "assess" the crisis.
The Obama administration favors reinstalling the democratically elected president, Manuel Zelaya, a leftist who
was expelled by the military in June. Committee Chairman John Kerry criticized DeMint for his "intransigence"
in putting a hold on two Obama nominations for State Department jobs in Latin America, and initially denied
money for DeMint's trip. But Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell somehow found funding through the
Defense Department.
"DeMint has been using this issue cynically to hold hostage the entire U.S. policy on Latin America in order to
defend a coup," says Adam Isacson, a Latin American specialist at Washington's Center for International
Policy.
"Little Honduras has brought all of the ghosts of the Cold War out of the closet, and paralyzed policy by
provoking the [DeMint] holds," Julia Sweig, the director for Latin American Studies of the Council on Foreign
Relations, told me. Some Hill staffers are even blunter: "These losers from the Bush administration who drove
Latin American policy off a frickin' cliff are trying to rescue their legacy," one aide told The Daily Beast.
A number of Democrats and foreign-policy experts contend the mounting right-wing attack on Latin American
policy has filled a void left by an Obama administration that was too slow to cut aid or take a firmer stance
against the president installed by the Honduran military, Roberto Micheletti. Driven partly by a desire to
appease opposition in Congress and distaste for left-wing populists the Obama administration "slow-walked" its
response to the coup this summer, Sweig says.
More recently, though, the administration has toughened its approach by cutting off some vital aid worth at least
$35 million and blocking Honduran officials' visas. The goal: to pressure the Micheletti regime to enter into
serious negotiations with the Organization of American States to restore the democratic government and Zelaya.
Informed observers say that indications of Micheletti's flexibility alarmed some right-wingers in Washington
and helped trigger DeMint's visit to buck up the regime's resistance.
An informal network of right-leaning American advocacy groups and ideologues was entangled in anti-Zelaya
legal and PR battles in Honduras before the coup. Among them: Otto Reich, a Cuban-American who headed the
State Department's now-defunct Office of Public Diplomacy during the Iran-Contra scandal, and was
subsequently investigated by a special joint congressional panel—and the U.S. Comptroller General, which
found he engaged in "prohibited covert activities" by using public funds to attack Reagan's critics. Reich, who
was later appointed by President George W. Bush to be assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs and
is now a private consultant, launched a media campaign against Zelaya before the coup alleging corruption.
"Your Loony Left sources say I was an architect of Iran-Contra like they say I'm an architect of the Zelaya
coup," he told me by phone from Panama. He disputes claims of illegal Iran-Contra activites as "crap,"
asserting they were only based on a fired House staffer's unpublished memo. But Greg Grandin, a Latin
American history professor at NYU, has a darker view of Reich's role: "It's kind of the origins of Swift
Boating," he says. "It's all related to what he's doing now."
Conservative supporters of the current Honduran government argue on arcane legal grounds against the
worldwide condemnation of the coup. "It's not the first time all, the countries in the world have been wrong,"
Reich told me. He has criticized what he sees as erroneous reporting on Latin American controversies, taking
The New York Times to task for an article last Thursday that he says implied he was being paid to lobby on
behalf of the Micheletti regime. "I guess my facts interfered with [the] story," he says. "Can you believe some
of my sources say The New York Times is malicious and deserves the slow death it is experiencing?" A
DeMint spokesman says the senator hasn't even met with Reich to talk about Honduras, although a Reich aide
says they've spoken to DeMint's staff.
Adding to the mystery of the coup, left-wingers in Latin America and the U.S. have floated what conservatives
say are unproven conspiracy theories that Reich somehow played a role in destabilizing Zelaya's regime. He
has firmly denied them to The Daily Beast: "I cannot possibly answer all the Loony Left conspiracy charges
against me. But I will try: I had nothing to do with the removal of Zelaya." But the rumors may add to his aura
of power as founder of Otto Reich Associates. He's drawn more attention to the new Honduras allegations by
penning a column for the Miami Herald boldly headlined, "I Did Not Orchestrate Coup in Honduras."
Perhaps the primary influence on DeMint's thinking has been the right-wing Honduran-American lawyer
Miguel Estrada, whose 2001 nomination to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit was rejected by the
Senate. In addition to Reich, other former Bush administration officials who have played key roles in
influencing DeMint and in spreading arguments for the Honduran regime include Roger Noriega, a former aide
to the late Sen. Jesse Helms (the far-right chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee) who also served as an
assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs from 2003 to 2005. On July 2, Noriega appeared on The
NewsHour with Jim Lehrer to argue the legitimacy of the new Honduran regime. He was identified as a former
ambassador to the Organization of American States and a visiting fellow of the American Enterprise Institute—
not as a paid agent for pro-regime forces.
Noriega officially registered his firm, Visions America, as representing a Honduran business group only in mid-
July. Yet, the Times reported, he worked with the Association of Honduran Manufacturers to set up meetings
between supporters of the regime and eight U.S. senators—including DeMint—in early July. That visit to
Washington by Honduran business and political figures from July 2 to July 10, Foreign Policy reported,
occurred at the same time as a House committee hearing during which Reich—along with a former Honduran
supreme court justice and Lanny Davis, a former Clinton administration official and now a lobbyist—testified
in favor of the current regime. Noriega's office declined to return phone calls about his work.
The lobbyist-organized visit also coincided with Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearings on Obama's
picks for top Latin American posts: Thomas Shannon, current assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere
Affairs, has been nominated to be Ambasssador to Brazil; and Arturo Valenzuela, director of Georgetown
University's Center for Latin American Studies and senior director for Inter-American Affairs at the National
Security Council during President Clinton's second term, has been tapped to be assistant secretary for Western
Hemisphere Affairs. Both Valenzuela and Shannon were approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
in late July. Julia Sweig of the Council on Foreign Relations observes, "They're not polarizing figures."
But for now they're hostages in DeMint's war. At the July 8 nomination hearings, Valenzuela angered DeMint
by defending the administration's decision to condemn the overthrow as a coup: "In my studies of military
coups in Latin America, this was a classic military coup," Valenzuela said. DeMint's critics contend that he has
continually refused compromise offers from both State Department officials and fellow senators to lift his holds,
including the promise of an extensive floor debate on Honduras before a floor vote on the nominees.
DeMint's spokesperson, Wesley Denton, says he's acting in good faith out of genuine concern about an
important crisis. "If these nominees are such a top priority for Democrats, then why hasn't Senator Reid brought
them to the floor?" he asks. "There is nothing Senator DeMint can do to stop a full debate and roll-call vote on
them." Technically that's true, but it would be a rare violation of a Senate tradition to do so. DeMint has taken
up the issue of Honduras, Denton claims, because, "the State Department's actions were directly relevant to two
nominees seeking the committee's approval."
Yet before DeMint took up the crusade on Honduras—in what critics say is yet another vehicle to "break"
Obama—one congressional observer jokes, "He couldn't find Honduras on a map."
Art Levine, a contributing editor of The Washington Monthly, has written for Mother Jones, The American
Prospect, The New Republic, The Atlantic, Slate.com, Salon. corn, and numerous other publications. He also
blogs regularly on labor, health, and other reform issues for In These Times and Huffington Post.
For inquiries, please contact The Daily Beast at editorial@thedailybeast.com. --- 
I will be out of the office Monday October 12 through Wednesday October 14. I will have very little access to email. If
you need to reach me on those days, please email Monica Hanley at hanleymr@state.gov, or call Monica at (202) 647-
5601. --- 
I will be out of the office until Tuesday, October 13 with limited access to e-mail. If you need immediate assistance,
please contact Pat Grimes at 202-647-9022.
Andrew J. Shapiro
Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs Department of State
2201 C Street, NW
Washington, DC 20520 --- 
sorry - just seeing b/c on my but have logged a call to him.
On Sat, Oct 9, 2010 at 7:18 AM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
Could you try to contact Mark Penn to confirm he no longer represents Thaksin before I call Thai PM at 9:30?
Thx. --- 
Thanks Madame Secretary -- we are working this on Jim's schedule currently I believe but the Admiral really wants you
to do this. We certainly want more attention to the still very tentative military dialogue between US and PRC and
Admiral Owens is very much engaged on this. It's your call but your involvement would certainly help this nascent
initiative gain altitude. Best Kurt --- 
 --- 
 --- 
... on Armenia-Turkey. Tough stuff, I know. Great accomplishment. I'm in Greece. George P will be big help. S --- 
 --- 
What a remarkable achievement to get the Turks and Armenians to come this far together. You are deservedly getting
good poSitive press for your efforts.
I just wanted you to know that the women in NI with whom you "walked the walk" over the years are eagerly looking
forward to seeing you. They were so incredibly helpful during your campaign telling the story of what you did to support
them, and as we know -- and as they have shown -- women are critical both to the peace process and to the peace
holding. Inez is planning to welcome you with a few words -- as she has done for over a decade. I will be with you all in
spirit. --- 
 --- 
Importance: High --- 
I think your speech in N.I. is among your best as SecState and an effort should be made to publish
the heart of it in the International Herald Tribune, Irish papers and a British paper (perhaps the
Guardian). I am doubtful a US paper would publish a long excerpt pared to a long -op-ed but
identified as an excerpt of your speech, but one that might is the Boston Globe. Sid --- 
Magazine
The Power Grid
Back From the Death Panel How the public option, helped by a congressman looking for an issue and a shrewdly silent White House,
returned from the brink.
•Published Oct 11, 2009
On the night last week when much of Washington was joyously weeping over the seal of approval bestowed on the Baucus health-care
bill by the Congressional Budget Office, Anthony Weiner was in his quarters in the Rayburn Building, merrily pissing all over the
legislation instead. "It's just too weak," he told me. "It doesn't do enough It doesn't achieve real cost savings. There's no real
competition. It's pretty much a wish list for the insurance companies." And those were merely Weiner's substantive criticisms of the
bill. His political assessment was even harsher: "It's effectively dead," he said. Not a droplet of Weiner's dismissal of the Baucus
plan came as any sort of shock; he's been trashing the Senate Finance Committee's efforts for weeks. What's surprising is that anyone
gives a fig what Weiner has to say about the topic in the first place. Until six months ago, after all, the congressman was known more
for his yearning to acquire the keys to Gracie Mansion than his mastery of the arcana of Medicare reimbursement rates. In fact, as
Weiner would be the first to admit, his interest in, knowledge of, and record on health-care reform were perilously close to
nonexistent. And yet, since May, when he concluded that taking on Mike Bloomberg was a challenge that went beyond the Sisyphean
into the realm of the just plain silly, Weiner has emerged as one of the few real stars in the marathon health-care debate: the clearest
and savviest (and, as always, loudest and noodgiest) voice in favor of the public option. And though it's plain that whatever bill
eventually lands on Barack Obama's desk—and, yes, I think the odds are now close to overwhelming that a big pile of health-care
paper will wind up there—won't be anything close to Weiner's single-payer dream, his role in framing the terms of the discussion has
been more than salutary. In some non-obvious ways, you could argue that it's been essential. I should confess at the outset that I have
a long-standing soft spot for Weiner, whom I first met more than twenty years ago, when he was a budding Chuck Schumer protégé
and we played on the same Capitol Hill softball team. Weiner then was strikingly similar to Weiner now: amped-up, ambitious,
wicked smart, forever gauging all the angles, unafraid of being (actually, proud of being) a royal pain in the tuchis. All the qualities, in
other words, that have served him so well in the wrangle over health care. Weiner describes his efflorescence on the subject as a
matter of opportunism, in the best sense of the word. "This was one of those unusual issues where we really didn't have a mother ship
that was directing the message, and that created an entrepreneurial environment," he says. "You didn't have the president out there
speaking clearly about what he wanted. And among my colleagues, there weren't people that jumped out who either had a comfort
with the material or weren't intimidated by the blowback" Weiner laughs. "Frankly, I like the blowback. After my thirteenth town-
hall meeting, someone on my staff said, 'I can't tell if you're a sadist or a masochist.— Weiner is right about the nature of the vacuum
that he smartly stepped in to fill, but there are at least two other proximate causes for it that should be added to his list: the illness and
death of Ted Kennedy and the migration of Hillary Clinton out of the Senate and into Foggy Bottom, which deprived the debate of
what would have been its two dominant liberal protagonists. For Weiner, Clinton's absence and its implications carry a personal twist;
he is engaged to Huma Abedin, Hillary's longtime personal aide. "It's a weird irony that I'm kind of part of the family now and this
has become my issue," Weiner says. "If Hillary had stayed in the Senate, I would never have had this opening." Weiner allows that
he's discussed the health-care battle with Clinton; what she's told him he will not say. But one imagines she approves of the
cleverness and chutzpa he's displayed—especially in drawing an explicit analogy between the public option and Medicare, an
equation that not only increases support for the proposal among voters but flushes out the phoniness of the Republican howls against a
"government takeover" of health care. And one similarly imagines Madame Secretary's chagrin at watching the Obama White House
pursue a dance-of-the-seven-veils strategy explicitly designed to be the antithesis of the one she employed back in 1993 and
1994. Weiner's view of the administration's approach hasn't exactly been approving—a point he's made abundantly and consistently
clear over the past months. On the eve of Obama's September speech before a joint session of Congress, Weiner cracked that "up to
now, the messaging from the White House has been done by Sybil ... They seem to have a different perspective on this every couple
of hours." And he's apparently had no change of heart. "The president has been a miserable messenger on this by and large," he tells
me.
Such criticisms haven't gone unnoticed at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, in no small part because Weiner—in a testament to his
consistency, lunacy, inability to shut up, or all three—hasn't shied away from making them directly. Indeed, on a recent flight back to
Washington from New York on Air Force One, I'm told by one congressman who witnessed the scene, Weiner got into a testy --- 
FYI --- 
Fyi --- 
Fyi --- 
FYI --- 
 --- 
 --- 
FYI --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Fm moratinos just called for you. Wants to talk about honduras. I'm tracking down torn for an update for you. --- 
Tom needs to update you before you talk to moratinos. So will connect torn to house, and then moratinos after? Ok? --- 
Back Tuesday
Speaking at UNESCO Monday with the new director on the unfinished Beijing agenda called to say she
wants to give us several million dollars to subsidize a fund to give an annual award for innovation in empowering women
that would be a rockefeller-State partnership. It would have a selection comm and we'd have to run all the traps, but
this could be huge. We could name after you if L would allow. I have to work oin this when I get back. --- 
Fyi --- 
 --- 
 --- 
From esther --- 
 --- 
FYI --- 
 --- 
Independent Fact-Finding Committee> --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Fyi --- 
Cc: Oscar Flores
Senator kerry asking to talk.
As you know he is overseas. He's available this am. ops can connect whevenver u call in. --- 
Potus may call through ops b/w 1 and 6 pm --- 
There are 2 draft letters from mara being faxed to secure fax right now. Oscar will receive.
Also, norwegian fm stoere wants to talk tomorrow. He will be in aghanistan. --- 
 --- 
RELEASE IN PART
B6 --- 
Mitchell says he needs to talk asap. --- 
Holbrooke and eikenberry asking if you can do a conference call with them. --- 
Fyi --- 
Ok its now going to be:
Ambassadors Eikenberry, Ricciardone, and tim Carney who's are all at embassy kabul. --- 
Yes --- 
They will. --- 
Kerry is sleeping --- 
I'm reading an old Entertainment Weekly and came across a promotional photo of Hope Davis and Dennis Quaid as you
and President Clinton (along with Michael Sheen and Helen McCrory as the Blairs), for the HBO movie called "The Special
Relationship" (due in the spring) - thought you'd get a kick out of seeing a photo of the photo, attached
In the caption, Hope Davis says, "They made special teeth for me because Hillary's are very unique. When I popped
them in, I suddenly looked very much like her." --- 
Per my prior email
Cdm --- 
 --- 
Sounds good -- will have copies for you tomorrow morning of those schedules. --- 
Just leaving Oslo. Jonas Store sure appreciates his good working rel with you, and seems super eager to help on Afpak.
Rumor is that, with elecitons behind them, he may be moved to (get this!) the health ministry. He's mum on subject,
but it makes political sense in Norway. Rumored rpt rumored successor is Jan Egeland-who would be a very good
choice, though Jonas is in a class by himself. Off to Istanbul. Cheers. --- 
FYI below — calling you in 5 minutes --- 
Can u do norwegian fm stoere today?
Hea apparently still in norway
Is free from 10am-6pm.
We have a call sheet to send you. --- 
fyi --- 
Reached out to them.
Also faxing call sheet. --- 
Cc: Oscar Flores
Norwegian fm stoere set for 10am
Call sheet has been faxed --- 
Left him a message
I don't think it will be a problem today but will doublecheck. --- 
 --- 
If you haven't read it yet, I commend the series that starts today in the NYT regarding his captivity.
Have a great Sunday. PJ --- 
Confirmed with mario. Weather supposed to improve throughout the day. In fact he said, the later the better so we are
ok for the 9. --- 
Fyi --- 
 --- 
He's reachable after 430pm --- 
flight. --- 
I know we talked about no need for moc calls re sudan Rich is asking if u would do howard berman today. I sent sheet to
oscar if u want to do. --- 
Fyi --- 
Our Co-Chairs, now Sec. of State McClintock and Dem. Comm. Chair Prats, have written a book about a campaign that
was historic in terms of a majority in PR and cooperation between statehooders and commonwealthers.
They want a foreword by you & WJC and pictures of your visits. I'll follow up with Cheyrl and Laura Graham on the
foreward and can do a draft if one is OK.
On Palau, I'll be following up with Jake. State's proposal would cut per capita income 20% over six years and 10% over
the 15 of the agreement being sought.
Jeff
Jeffrey L. Farrow
B6 --- 
Just berman he said --- 
 --- 
Susan called Payne today. We have also sent paper to Payne's africa subcommittee staff director. --- 
The additional calls to be made today by Susan and Scott are listed below. It is our understanding that all these calls
were made (though a couple of house members were unavailable). We have also been in touch with all leadership and
key committee staff in the house and senate and sent them the relevant fact sheet/white paper on the new policy.
Ambassador Rice: Feingold¦ Leahy¦ Payne
Gration: Lowey¦ Ros-Lehtinen¦ Lee¦ Capuano¦ McCaul¦ Isakson¦ Corker¦ Brownback¦ Wolf --- 
Relatively positive feedback. Some concern over the increased engagement and lingering concern over Scott's previous
comments. If he sticks to the agreed upon points tomorrow at the presser and in the follow up with the NGOs, think the
roll out will be well received, even with Friday nite's leak. --- 
 --- 
She actually moved the event to Geneva in December. Melanne feels we should just send a video, it is not worth
factoring into our travel overseas. I will show you the invite today. --- 
730 works for me
Thx --- 
730 am works - we can have ops connect evertyone --- 
That is fine for me. --- 
ctikoliingtonVo't
NEWS I POLITICS I OPINIONS I BUSINESS I LOCAL I SPORTS I ARTS & LIVING I GOING OUT GUIDE I JOBS I CARS I REAL ESTATE
SHOPPING
Ad•••¦•¦¦•.. • us. kl
Reasonable people can disagree on whatever it was
By Al Kamen
Monday, October 19, 2009
They call it the World's Greatest Deliberative Body (WGDB), Part I.
The Senate Judiciary Committee last week was reviewing an amendment by Sen. Richard Durbin (D-I11.) to the
USA Patriot Act to clarify the legal standard needed for an investigation under the act. The amendment was
intended to provide greater protections from abuse by investigators.
His colleague, Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), spoke in opposition, agreeing with committee Chairman Patrick
Leahy (D-Vt.) and ranking Republican Jeff Sessions (Ala.) that additional protections are not needed.
"I would just point to the actual language in here," Klobuchar said, "which is, it's not like this is some pie-in-
the-sky standard here. I mean, it specifically says," she noted approvingly, reading aloud from the bill, that there
have to be "reasonable grounds to believe that the information sought is relevant to an authorized national
security investigation," and you can't investigate someone just for exercising free speech rights and there's got
to be some suspected foreign agent involved.
"So I just, for anyone listening to this, it is not like there is no standard," she concluded. "There is a standard in
place here."
"That's the standard that is in the bill now?" Sessions asked.
Klobuchar nodded that it was.
No it's not, Durbin interrupted. "Senator Klobuchar, you just read my amendment," not the bill, he said -- "and I
think it's critically important that you understand what we're establishing here."
Whatever. Klobuchar voted against the amendment, which got only a handful of votes anyway.
Blame the gatekeeper
The usual pattern at the State Department is that the new secretary arrives at Foggy Bottom for the first day of
work and enters to rousing cheers from career Foreign Service folks hoping the new boss will actually heed
their expert advice. (They are, by nature, an optimistic crowd.)
Then, after 7 months, 8 days and 12 hours, on average, the grumbling begins that the secretary is "not
accessible" to senior career folks, that she's overly protected by her personal staff, that the promised "open
door" has slammed shut. The fingers start pointing, usually at the secretary's chief of staff. These days, that's
Cheryl Mills, who holds that post for Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
We're hearing complaints even from members of the inner circle that the overworked Mills -- chief of staff,
counselor, overseer of Haiti policy and food security policy and the department motor pool (okay, not really) --
has made entry to Clinton's suite something like penetrating the Green Zone in Baghdad.
Not so, says Undersecretary of State William Burns, the department's top career official. "This secretary is in
touch every day with as many people across the department as possible, and Cheryl is a big part of making that
happen."
Another senior State official said Clinton has been on the road a lot: Asia in July and Africa in August and
Ireland and Moscow just the other day, and soon she'll be back on the road, pretty much until Thanksgiving.
There have also been a bunch of meetings of late on AfPak matters.
Hey, just telling you what we're hearing.
In a timely fashion ...
The Loop Better-Late-Than-Never award this year goes to the State Department's personnel bureau. The bureau,
in an Oct. 13 notice, said it had awarded a $1.6 million contract to Campion Services Inc. in West Lafayette,
Ind., to "assist the department in ensuring that all examinations for Foreign Service [jobs] have been
professionally validated and constitute a reliable means of identifying those applicants with the greatest
possibility of success in the foreign service."
Well, good thing the department's only been hiring for a couple of hundred years.
The rest of the résumé
The White House last week announced that President Obama had selected Jessie H. Roberson, a nuclear expert
and senior vice president of environmental affairs for the Atlantic Sea Island Group, to be a member of the
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. The bio notes her previous jobs, even her undergraduate degree in
nuclear engineering.
Name sounds familiar. Roberson, Roberson: Wasn't she Dubya's appointee as assistant secretary of the Energy
Department for environmental management, the $6 billion-a-year weapons cleanup program? That's not
mentioned in the White House release, but she was there from 2001 to 2004.
Waterboarding for kids?
WGDB, Part II: Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) must be feeling stressed these days over the travails of his pal, Sen.
John Ensign (R-Nev.). For those who missed it, Coburn took to the Senate floor last week to decry federal
deficits, which are not, for him, an abstraction.
"It is deeply personal with me," Coburn explained. "I have five grandchildren. I look in their eyes, and I see the
potential of their lives and all of these other children who are out there. You know what? We are going to
waterboard them. That is what we are going to do. We are going to waterboard them. We are going to flood
them with debt. We are going to shackle their opportunities. We are going to limit their possibilities because we
don't have the courage to make the difference for their future."
Wait a minute! It's just a dunk in the water.
© 2009 The Washington Post Company --- 
FYI --- 
 --- 
 --- 
and...
III be sure to find him for you. --- 
Fyi from Jose re mayor villaraigosa who offered to help raise for shanghai:
"Antonio did say that he has not heard from Secy since election. I wonder how feasible it would be to get her to call him
to thank him for his commitment to help? I think he can easily raise $2m. "
See b/I
Cdm --- 
 --- 
H: Of interest, Hague latest briefing, hostile to Tony. Tories desperately do not want Blair there, want to run their own
European policy, mostly anti-EU, and indeed break with past and continuity on Europe. Tory Party split, with anti-EU
faction dominant, its base virulent, and Cameron straddling as best he can. Hague leans anti-Europe. S
London Times
October 22, 2009
`Appointing Blair as EU president will have
consequences', warns Hague
William Hague's strident attack on his fellow Briton reportedly left some of the EU ambassadors baffled
Francis Elliott, David Charter and Tom Baldwin
William Hague has been conducting a behind-the-scenes campaign to convince European ambassadors that Tony Blair
would be a bad choice for European Union president, The Times has learnt. The Shadow Foreign Secretary used a lunch
organised by the Swedish presidency in London last week to lobby the most senior diplomats of the 26 other EU nations
against the appointment.
EU leaders had hoped to choose the new president at next week's summit, but the Czech Republic's last-minute
objections to the Lisbon treaty have scuppered that. President Sarkozy of France wants a quick decision, however, and is
understood to be pushing for a special one-day summit in Brussels next month to fill the new post.
In making the Conservatives' case against Mr Blair, Mr Hague said that while in Downing Street the former Prime Minister
had consistently placed a higher priority on US interests than on those of Europe. Mr Hague also reminded the diplomats
of Mr Blair's actions in the run-up to the Iraq war, according to one of those attending the lunch last Thursday.
A claim that Mr Hague told the ambassadors that the Tories would regard Mr Blair's appointment as a "declaration of war"
by the EU was denied, however. A spokesman for Mr Hague said that the phrase was "a bit strong". Nevertheless, it was
not disputed that Mr Hague made clear that the move would have consequences for relations between Britain and
Brussels. Diplomats said that there was a "clear mark of hostility".
"Mr Hague wanted to leave the ambassadors in no doubt that the Conservative Party is opposed to the appointment of
Tony Blair as president of the European Council and [that] it would only underline the lack of accountability and legitimacy
involved in the creation of the position in the first place," Mr Hague's spokesman said. Mr Hague's strident attack on his
fellow Briton reportedly left some of the ambassadors baffled.
Mr Hague is currently in Washington for talks with members of the Obama Administration, including Hillary Clinton, the
Secretary of State, with whom he raised the issue of the Conservatives' membership of a right-wing alliance of European
parties with allegedly anti-Semitic members. He accused critics of running a smear campaign against some of the group,
led by Michal Kaminsky, head of Poland's Law and Justice Party. --- 
fyi --- 
 --- 
 --- 
FYI --- 
We hope so. Craig will explore tomorrow am. --- 
Teeing up you call to preval for today - see b/I --- 
Donald payne --- 
More --- 
I will call him but if I can't reach him I may want you to make a quick call --- 
October 23, 2009
For: Hillary --- 
 --- 
FYI --- 
fyi --- 
Maura:
This has really been great work. Thanks for keeping everyone focused and organized and together during the storm,
especially after Miller left, and for providing the leadership to start implementing the changes before the report was
done to create such a good outcome.
In short — thanks for stepping up and being you.
Help is on the way though she likely won't be confirmed for a bit but you've done such a great job as Acting through this
process that it will be a piece of cake to stand on your head until the A/S arrives.
cdm --- 
fyi --- 
We are coordinating with the canadas, the eu and a few others to try to take action on Monday collectively - we'll see
how successful we are --- 
See traffic below — read down --- 
Photo is gorgeous (and there are 20 more online, some are really great)
The article is good, just way too short, so it became very matter of fact, didn't include a lot of the great stuff he saw that
day. They cut what he turned in in half.
But for this readership, that length is probably perfect. It supposedly gets seen by 70 million people. 69 million
probably never open it up and just see it in their Sunday paper, so the cover is the ballgame. Story is basically an excuse
for the cover. And the cover is a homerun.
In the end, I firmly believe it will be the totality all these in-depth projects like Vogue, National Geographic, Nightline,
Time - which I know are annoying - that are going to create a collage documenting your success, especially in terms of
style and work ethic, which I believe is what people are most interested when it comes to their perception and approval
of you. --- 
I second Philippe's take, on all counts. --- 
Plus - I made a new friend in Les Gelb - we have connected on our love of cats (he has 3) --- 
Fyi --- 
Of course! --- 
Love it!! --- 
PosnerM H @state.gov
202-647-2126 work
PallyMM@state.gov
(202) 647-6427 work
I'm working on getting cell numbers for you. --- 
Mike posner additional numbers
Ill make sure these are all saved in your bb on monday. --- 
RELEASE IN PART
B6 --- 
 --- 
Will call you after 630 - just got out of pool w/ kidlets --- 
Will call you now --- 
 --- 
Rajiv Shah
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Current Under Secretary Rajiv Shah
Rajiv "Raj" Shah (born March 9, 1973) is presently Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education,
and Economics (REE) and Chief Scientist at the United States Department of Agriculture.
Prior to his appointment at USDA, Shah worked in a range of leadership roles at the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation including Director of Agricultural Development, Director of Financial Services, leader of the
Strategic Opportunities initiative and manager of the Foundation's $1.5 billion commitment to the Vaccine
Fund. He also came up with the idea for the International Finance Facility for Immunization to transform the
global system of vaccine financing, and worked to secure donor commitments of more than $5 billion for this
facility. Before joining the Gates Foundation, Shah was a health care policy advisor on the Al Gore presidential
campaign, 2000 and a member of Governor Ed Rendell's (D-PA) transition committee on health.
Shah earned his M.D. from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and M.Sc. in Health Economics
at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan and
also attended the London School of Economics.
President Obama announced Shah's selection as Under Secretary of Research, Education, and Economics and
Chief Scientist on April 17, 2009. Shah's nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate by unanimous
consent on May 12, 2009.
Early life and family
Born to Indian immigrant parents who settled in Ann Arbor, Michigan in the late 60's, Raj Shah grew up in the
Detroit area and attended Wylie Groves High School.
He lives with his wife, Shivam, and their two young children, Sajan and Amna. He has one sister, Ami Shah,
who is a medical doctor.
Career
Raj Shah is currently the Under Secretary of Research, Education and Economics (REE) and Chief Scientist at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The REE mission area provides the science that federal agencies, policy
makers, researchers, and others draw on to meet challenges facing America's food and agriculture system. The
four REE agencies are the Agricultural Research Service (including the National Agricultural Library), the
Economic Research Service, the National Agricultural Statistics Service, and the Cooperative State Research,
Education and Extension Service.
Prior to his appointment at USDA Raj worked in a range of leadership roles at the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation to help the poorest people on earth lead healthy and productive lives.
As the Director of the Agricultural Development program, Shah oversaw the foundation's multi-billion dollar
portfolio of grant and program-related investments to help transform rural economies throughout the developing
world and help small farmers and their families overcome hunger and poverty. He led efforts to create the
Alliancefor a Green Revolution in Africa, helped recruit its leadership including UN Secretary General Kofi
Annan, and serves on its Board of Directors. He oversaw grant portfolios in science and technology; farmer
productivity; market access; and policy, statistics and advocacy; and managed a team of more than 60
professionals. He also developed innovative partnerships with private industry, the United Nations, the World
Bank, and country governments around the world, where he was an active voice on issues related to food and
hunger.
As the Foundation's first Director for the Financial Services to the Poor portfolio, Shah worked with a broad
range of financial institutions and other donors to determine how Foundation resources could best amplify the
field's collective impact. Previously, he led the Strategic Opportunities initiative which worked with Foundation
co-chairs to identify, assess and recommend new areas of giving. This process led to the creation of the
Foundation's Global Development Program.
Shah's early work with the Foundation focused on global health. As Deputy Director for Policy and Finance,
Raj managed the Foundation's $1.5 billion commitment to the Vaccine Fund — an effort referred to by Bill and
Melinda Gates as their best investment. He also came up with the idea for the International Finance Facility for
Immunization to transform the global system of vaccine financing and worked to secure donor commitments of
more than $5 billion for this facility. The World Health Organization estimates this initiative will save more
than five million children's lives through the next decade, and a New York Times article described the effort as
"a clever way to reduce the burden of costly diseases now and save money in the future."
Shah previously worked as a health care policy advisor on the Gore 2000 presidential campaign, was an active
supporter of the Barack Obama presidential campaign, 2008, and served as a member of Pennsylvania Governor
Ed Rendell's health transition committee. He also co-founded Health Systems Analytics (a health care
consulting firm), served as an advisor to the City of Philadelphia's Public Health Commissioner, and worked at
the World Health Organization. In addition, he co-founded multiple nonprofit organizations focused on
increasing the political awareness and civic engagement of minority communities, including Project Impact for
South Asian Americans. --- 
Lael Brainard
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Lad Brainard was a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution from 2001 to 2009, and served as the vice
president and director of the Global Economy and Development program from June 2006 to March 16, 2009.
Brainard has been nominated by President Barack Obama to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for
International Affairs.al
Brainard served as Deputy National Economic Adviser and Chair of the Deputy Secretaries Committee on
International Economics during the Clinton Administration. As Deputy Director of the National Economic
Council, she helped build a new White House organization to address global economic challenges such as the
Asian financial crisis and China's WTO entry. As the US Sherpa to the G8, she helped shape the 2000 G8
Development Summit that for the first time included leaders of the poorest nations and laid the foundations for
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria. She has been mentioned as a likely U.S. Trade Representative
in the Obama administration. 121
Previously, Brainard served as Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of
Management, where her publications made important contributions on the relationship between offshore
production, trade, and jobs; the measurement of structural and cyclical unemployment in the US economy; and
strategic trade policy. Brainard has also worked at McKinsey & Co. advising corporate clients on strategic
challenges and on microenterprise in West Africa.
Brainard is an alumna of the George School class of 1979, a boarding school in Newtown, PA. Brainard
received masters and doctoral degrees in Economics from Harvard University, where she was a National
Science Foundation Fellow. She graduated with highest honors from Wesleyan University with a degree from
the College of Social Studies. She is the recipient of a White House Fellowship and a Council on Foreign
Relations International Affairs Fellowship, a Marshall Scholar elect, and a member of the Wesleyan University
Board of Trustees, Council on Foreign Relations, and Aspen Strategy Group.
Publications
Brainard is co-editor of Too Poor For Peace? (2007); co-editor of Offshoring White Collar Work (2006); editor
of Transforming the Development Landscape: the Role of the Private Sector (2006) and Security by Other
Means: Foreign Assistance, Global Poverty and American Leadership (2006); and coauthor of The Other War:
Global Poverty and the Millennium Challenge Corporation (2004). On March 23, 2009 she was nominated as
Under-Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs by President Barack Obama.
Select recent publications include "Services Offshoring, American Jobs, and the Global Economy," with Robert
E. Litan, Perspectives on Work (Winter 2005); "Reassessing National Security," with Michael O'Hanlon, in
Alice Rivlin and Isabel Sawhill, eds., Restoring Fiscal Sanity (2004); "Building Common Ground on Trade
Demands More Than a Name Change," with Hal Shapiro, The George Washington International Law Review,
2003; "Compassionate Conservatism Confronts Global Poverty," The Washington Quarterly, Spring 2003;
"The Implications for the Global Economy of America's Campaign against Terrorism," Cambridge Review of
International Affairs, July 2002; and "Are U.S. Multinationals Exporting U.S. Jobs?" with David Riker, in
David Greenaway and Douglas Nelson, eds., Globalization and Labour Markets (Elgar, 2001).
Brainard is married to Kurt Campbell, who was nominated in April as assistant secretary of state for East Asian
and Pacific affairs.121 --- 
Calling you in a bit before I leave the office. --- 
RELEASE IN
PART B6 --- 
First, Tom's travel date hasn't been set -- will be Tuesday or Wednesday we think. He is coordinating with Dan Restrepo
to see if they can go together.
1.4
B1
— Reason: 1.4(D) — Declassify on: 06/29/2024
(D)
1.4(D)
B1
So that's where we are. We'll have more to report tomorrow. --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, October 25, 2009 12:11 PM
RE: More When We Speak --- 
Oscar, these are the briefings we just completed for her pakistani media interviews tomorrow. Can you print ? --- 
 --- 
 --- 
Jonathan Powell tells me that remarks about Tony would be appreciated but that what would really be significant will be
your conversation with Merkel. Sid --- 
Agree and he speaks fluent English so no translation needed. --- 
Yes, vali is working on an answer sheet for some of the tough q and a like blackwater, drones, quetta shura and nuclear
security. You will have tonite or tomorrow am. --- 
Out on official travel until late in the afternoon of Thursday Oct 22, 2009. --- 
We can reach out to see if he can come in the afternoon. --- 
All set -- Singapore Minister will be at 4:30pm. --- 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
October 27, 2009
For: Hillary --- 
 --- 
Calling you --- 
We're here next door and about to check in w cdm. --- 
My hair is getting whiter by the minute watching these reports of your trip to Pakistan. I know you'll do a smart job but
be very cautious as well-- I need you both in excellent shape to see ME on Nov 6 at your DC event. Love, Betsy Sent
from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry --- 
EU leaders to debate Blair presidency on
summit sidelines
Climate talks overshadowed by divisive subject of Tony Blair's candidacy to be Europe's first president
European government chiefs gather in Brussels this evening for a summit likely to be the first occasion to broach the
divisive subject of Tony Blair's candidacy to be Europe's first president.
The topic is not formally on the agenda of a meeting that will be dominated by wrangling over climate change funding and
how to get the Czech president, Vaclav Klaus, to add the final signature to the reformist Lisbon treaty. But senior
diplomats predicted there would be intense private discussion on the fringes of the summit over the question: who will get
the plum job of first sitting president of the European council, the pre-eminent EU forum that brings leaders together for
summits at least four times a year.
David Miliband, the foreign secretary, said today that Blair would give Europe a "strong voice" on the global stage, but his
comments were seized on by his Conservative shadow, William Hague, who said the debate over the presidency proved
that the UK should have held a referendum on the Lisbon treaty.
Officially, the job does not exist until Klaus finalises Czech ratification of the treaty, expected within weeks. While Blair
personally has kept quiet about his ambitions, the British government is campaigning increasingly assertively on the
former prime minister's behalf.
"We will be making the case for a strong, internationally known figure who can open doors in [foreign] capitals," said an
official. "There is only one candidate."
That was not a reference to Jean-Claude Juncker, the veteran Luxembourg prime minister and European fixer, who is the
only contender so far to have openly declared his candidacy. He emerged this week as the anti-Blair.
Juncker looks certain to fail in his bid for the top job. But he may well succeed in destroying Blair's chances, being viewed
as a stalking horse who will vanish to make way for a third unknown contender.
While the Blair debate rages on the sidelines of the summit, the big priority for the Swedish government chairing the
meeting is to try to break a deadlock on EU funding of climate change programmes in the developing world ahead of the
Copenhagen conference in December.
Berlin and Warsaw are the keys to a deal, but the prospects for a breakthrough look dim. Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish
prime minister, warned that Europe's credibility on global warming was at stake.
In recent weeks European governments have locked horns over the financing package and have been unable to reach
agreement. The aim is to come up with pledges of an EU fund of up to €15bn (£13.4bn) a year by 2020 for transfers to the
developing countries to combat global warming. The overall package is central to a Copenhagen deal.
But with the other big players, especially the US, which is reluctant to commit to a figure, Germany believes Europe
should not show its hand until the Copenhagen negotiations. The European commission and others such as the UK and
the Scandinavians believe agreeing on a figure in advance would strengthen Europe's global leadership role on climate
change and send a strong signal to other potential signatories.
The Poles and other eastern Europeans are unhappy at being asked to stump up for developing countries such as Brazil,
which is wealthier than the poorer EU members. The Poles are refusing to agree a package and figures for Copenhagen
unless it is first decided how the bill will be split among the EU's 27 governments. In the midst of a financial crisis, the
eastern Europeans say they cannot afford the climate change fund.
Angela Merkel, sworn in yesterday for a second term as German chancellor, will be pivotal to any climate change
financing deal and her answer to the Blair question may also be decisive. So far, she has been hedging her bets.
While Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, is known to support Blair with reservations, there are no German candidates
for the two big new jobs being created under Lisbon — the European president and a European foreign minister or high
representative for foreign and security policy.
In Paris last night the French and German leaders discussed the posts, although there was little information on whether
they reached a pact. Sarkozy said the two leaders agreed on "almost everything".
Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg — all said to nurse ambitions to secure the presidential post
themselves — have come out publicly against Blair on the grounds that he would neglect the interests of smaller EU
member states — 19 out of the total 27.
Adding his voice to the argument, Demitris Christofias, the president of Cyprus, said a council president "from a small
country would be more objective and more consensual. The European Union is a family of compromises."
The Dutch centre-right prime minister and possible contender, Jan-Peter Balkenende, has come under pressure this week
to renounce European presidential ambitions since his move to Brussels could trigger early elections and the fall of his
government.
Christofias emphasised that tonight the priority would be to get the Klaus blocking of the Lisbon treaty lifted rather than
focusing on who gets what under Lisbon.
Senior diplomats agreed it was too early to discuss names. If Klaus signs thetreaty soon, a special summit would be
convened next month to decide on the president and foreign minister, also leaving the European commission chief, Jose
Manuel Barroso, to put together a new team. --- 
 --- 
Jonathan Powell suggests that VVJC write an article supporting Tony Blair for EU president in Die Welt, the Berlin
newspaper. If so, I suggest it be wrapped in a discussion on the future of Europe, the need for Europe to be strong as a
partner with US for many goals requiring a strong president: the policy imperatives, from climate change, security, social
integration, etc. point to Blair. Also, if done, should include description and endorsement of Blair's personal Qualities for
office. Can't be backhanded. Jonathan says Tony should call Bill soon. Sid --- 
agree --- 
Guardian
sbwhoeop
Thursday, October 29, 2009 7:08 PM
H; Doug Band
fyi: Blair's chances seem to be cratering in EU. Sid
Tony lair's bid for EU residency sinks
Ex-PM's chances of winning role slide as Sarkozy and Merkel fail to back him
• Nicholas s‘tv'at.i. and )an,..Trajf.pf in Brussels
• u!,-„ Thursday 29 October 2009 21.26 GMT
T20.,.:31::.3.1:7's hopes of becoming Europe's first sitting president were receding fast tonight as Britain admitted his chances
of success were "fading" after the continent's centre-right leaders made it clear one of their own must have the post.
Hours after G
.nr.4,
,efl Srov.,,h delivered his strongest statement of support for Blair — disclosing that he had spoken to him
earl;er this week — British sources indicated that the former prime minister was unlikely to assume the high-profile. job.
"it would be right to describe Tony's c,hances as fading," one British source said."..slcgles. t.
..aa'r.sa; and are
not terribly enthusiastic. Silvio Berlust.-,oni remains his strongest backer."
Bialr's expected failure to secure the post of president of the European Council meant that ca,•,-,'et.,
.."it;ity.n-te was emerging
as a serious contender to assume the new post of high representative for foreign policy. The foreign secretary insisted,
however, that.he was "not available".
Miliband spoke out as British sources said it had become clear in recent days that Blair would struggle to become
president. The post is likely to be filled in the next month amid signs that the Czech Republic will become the last EU
country to ratify the Lisbon treaty.
Sarkozy, the French president, and Merkel, the German chancellor, are understood to have agreed at a dinner at the
Elysee Palace last night that the new president should be appointed from the main centre-right EPP grouping, which
brings together the parties currently ruling most EU countries.
Brown gave a hint at a press conference that Blair's candidacy was fading when he qualified his strong backing for his
predecessor by stating that there were also other candidates for the job. "Of course it may not happen and there are other
candidates as well," he said.
The prime minister's remarks came after he attended an acrimonious meeting of the European centre-left leaders this
afternoon, shortly before the EU summit in Brussels began.
Brown was understood to have had a tense exchange with Martin Schulz, the German leader of the Socialists in the
European parliament, who wants the left to assume the new foreign policy post, leaving the presidency to the centre right.
Brown told the meeting: "You need to get real. This is a unique opportunity to get a progressive politician to be the
president of the council."
But it soon became clear that Blair has no support on the left, let alone on the centre right. Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero,
Spain's centre-left prime minister, for the first time publicly queried the Blair candidacy by announcing that the centre left
across the EU was more concerned with securing the other post of European foreign minister. Zapatero, who will have to
work with the new European figureheads when Spain assumes the Eti's six-month rotating presidency on 1 January, said
the European socialists were clear that they want the post of the high representative. "There is a preference for the high
representative," he said. "That is rather reasonable."
A senior Spanish official said this was the first time that Zapatero had "dropped Blair" and that the centre-left in the EU
was seeking a deal with the centre-right, led by Merkel. The centre-right would get the job coveted by Blair, while the
centre left would take the foreign minister post. The lack of support for Blair became clear when Jean Asselborn,
Luxembourg's foreign minister, launched a strong attack on him as be emerged from the meeting of Socialist leaders. "lt is
not about the person of Tony Blair. Now in the United States, Obama is the president, it is no more Mr Bush. We have a
new treaty, we have to reset Europe and we need to start with some new ideas. There is and will remain a link for the next
generation between Iraq, Bush and Tony Blair."
Downing Street wiil resist criticism that it was wrong to mount such a strong campaign in favour of Blair when it had
become clear earlier this week that his chances were fading.
Brown believes it was right — and in the national interest — to argue strongly for Blair when there was a chance to secure
such a senior post for Britain. Blair, who had a tense relationship with Brown during his decade as prime minister, will be
pleased by the strength of his successor's support.
Brown said today: "Let me say very clear that we, the British government, believe that Tony Blair would be an excellent
candidate and an excellent person to hold the job of president of the council.
"His international experience is well known, his expertise on environmental, economic and security issues is well known to
everybody throughout Europe as well as known throughout the world If you have the chance for that to happen it is in
Britain's national interest."
guardian.co.uk Guardian News and Media Limited 2009 --- 
 --- 
All good — have communicated some matters to Jake.
RS on board. Will have you call TV when you ret on Weds and can explain when we talk.
Sexton and Marty Edelman will be in UAE as fyi — will tell Huma. --- 
From our dawn friend. --- 
fyi --- 
Assume cdm already shared with u. --- 
 --- 
Will print too. --- 
Editorial: Mrs. Clinton in Pakistan
NEW YORK TIMES
October 30, 2009
Hillary Rodham Clinton's first trip to Pakistan as secretary of state was never going to be easy. The day she arrived,
extremists detonated a car bomb at a crowded market in Peshawar that killed at least 100 people. The Nation
newspaper dismissed the visit as a mere "PR exercise, but who will buy what the US is selling is difficult to imagine,
beyond the already compliant government."
Polls show that an overwhelming majority of Pakistanis dislike and mistrust the United States. They blame Washington
for using and then abandoning them after the Soviets were driven from Afghanistan. And they resent Washington for
pressing their government now to fight against extremists — and suspect that they will be abandoned again. The fact
that many of the extremists are on Pakistan's territory and threatening Pakistan's government has not shifted that
thinking or mitigated that resentment.
A good part of this, of course, is the failure of Pakistan's government, which has still not adequately explained that this is
not just America's fight. But the United States is also to blame. For eight years the Bush administration coddled the
Pakistani Army at the expense of the rest of society.
Mrs. Clinton challenged Pakistan's government to do more to shut down Al Qaeda, but she was, rightly, determined to
use this visit to also broaden the relationship.
Instead of just courting President Asif All Zardari and the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, Mrs. Clinton also held
talks with the top opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif; parried questions from an audience of deeply suspicious college
students; met with civil society leaders, including women and Pashtun elders; gave interviews to Pakistani journalists;
and visited religious and cultural sights.
She promised to refocus American aid on the "needs of the people" and announced targeted commitments, including
$85 million for microloans for poor women to start businesses and $125 million for the first phase of an electricity
project aimed at reducing blackouts and improving energy conservation.
Those grants are welcome but still small change when compared with a five-year, $7.5 billion — nonmilitary — aid
package approved by Congress and signed into law this year. That package was supposed to demonstrate to Pakistanis
that, this time, the United States is in it for the long haul. Instead, it has become another focus of popular resentment.
The Army and some Pakistani news media whipped that up with disingenuous complaints that the legislation (Islamabad
was consulted beforehand) compromised Pakistan's sovereignty by conditioning disbursement on adequate civilian
control of the military.
If Washington is ever to enlist Pakistan as a reliable ally, it is going to have to do a much better job of explaining itself.
And it is going to have to insist that Pakistan's leaders start explaining the real stakes to their citizens and the real
benefits of an alliance with the United States. Mrs. Clinton's trip was an important start — but only a start. --- 
See below --- 
Jeffrey L Farrow
Friday, October 30, 2009 2:56 PM
Jacob J Sullivan
Only Palau & Israel vote w/US in UN
RELEASE IN PART
B6
Wed., Palau was one of only two UN General Assembly members to vote with the U.S against a
resolution calling for an end to the US embargo of Cuba (Israel was the other). Even the two
other states in free association with the US. did not support the US position. important officials
in Palau wanted to abstain because of the drastic cut in.U.S. assistance that Alcy Frelick has
insisted on but Pres. Toribiong decided to stick with the US. The proposal to cut the small
amount of assistance that Palau is receiving is ironic in light of the substantial increase in
assistance pledged to the two other freely associated states just a few years ago. It is also
misinformed and misguided.
Jeff
ri;).
ivEtrnlia News
Palau has joined the United States and Israel in voting against a United Nations resolution calling
for an end to the US embargo on Cuba....
n --- 
This is not a fair assessment of the position we have taken. We have more than tripled to level of assistance from what
was proposed in the last Administration and have expressed flexibility about how to structure it. Jeff has consistently
been pushing the Palauns to press for more. Kurt reached out to him per your instruction and we will get you a
complete memo. --- 
Funny timing given Farrow email, which I can discuss further with you. --- 
 --- 
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, October 30, 2009 8:47 PM
H
RE: Your boss
Look at you getting big praise — I don't even get that! --- 
October 31, 2009
For: Hillary --- 
 --- 
Hello! TL, will buzz you on Monday to follow up ... --- 
 --- 
Sorry -- just seeing. In short, they might have made a bad word choice. They should have said "reconcile" instead of
"achieve both." But having done it, they've got to play out the string with the Pals, who would be suspicious of the
change. But if AM says no on Monday, Mitchell is open to changing it. If AM miraculously says yes, then they'll have the
leverage to push it through with BN. Can elaborate on plane.
They didn't admit they made a bad word choice - that's my interpretation. --- 
