Assume the following two pieces from Dawn in Karachi reached you through other channels, but just to be sure.
The first is exactly the bad story I was worried about.
The second is the Administration's attempt to shoot it down.
Bottom line (another four-letter word): "Whew!"
FIRST STORY
Talks under way for N-deal with US: Haqqani
By Zulciernain Tahir
Monday, 15 Feb, 2010 I 06:02 AM PST I
LAHORE: Pakistan's Ambassador to US Husain Haqqani has said the government has started negotiating with the United
States for an agreement on nuclear technology.
"The US is not sceptical about our nuclear programme. Talks between Pakistan and the US for cooperation on atomic
programmes are under way and we want the US to have an agreement with us like the one it had with India on civil
nuclear technology," Mr Haqqani said at a reception hosted by Punjab Governor Salmaan Taseer on Sunday.
He said Pakistan would get 16 latest F-16 aircraft in June. He said although the expectations of Pakistan and the US with
each other usually did not fulfil, both were indispensable for each other.
"We have to largely depend upon the US for our defence related matters.
"India is our main concern as it is buying weapons worth $100 billion from five countries, including China, and to balance
it our relations with the US are very significant," he said and added that India had 5,500 tanks and there was a question
against whom they would be used. "We cannot be assured by statements that India will not wage a war against us."
Giving a reason as to why Pakistan had to look towards the US for enhancing its military capacity and capability, Mr
Haqqani said the European countries did not offer soft terms for buying weapons. "Ties with the US are important for a
secure, stable and prosperous Pakistan."
Mr Haqqani said Pakistan had also made it clear on the US that it should ensure a strengthened and Islamabad-friendly
regime in Kabul before leaving.
He said Pakistan had sought drone technology from America. "On one hand our innocent people are losing their lives
while on the other Taliban leaders like Baitullah Mehsud get killed in such attacks," he said.
Mr Haqqani said the US wanted to strengthen democracy in Pakistan and aid under the Kerry-Lugar Bill had started
coming from January.
In reply to a question, he said Pakistan's embassy in the US was working on diplomatic and legal aspects in Dr Aafia
Siddiqui case and was making efforts for securing her release or transfer of her case to a Pakistani court.
SECOND STORY
No nuclear deal with Pakistan, says US
By Anwar lqbal
Monday, 01 Mar, 2010 I 07:15 AM PST I
WASHINGTON: The Obama administration has told Pakistan it would not get an atomic power plant or a civilian nuclear
deal from the United States.
A senior US official, while briefing Indian journalists in Washington, said the United States was working closely with
Pakistan to help meet its growing energy needs.
"But nuclear power is not currently part of our discussions," and the United States had conveyed its decision to Pakistan,
the official said.
He said the administration had also told Pakistan that "there is no way they can get a civilian nuclear deal similar to the
one the Obama administration has signed with India".
The lndo-US civilian nuclear deal, the official said, was "specific to India only and there is no thinking going on in the
administration to create a template for it."
 --- 

Cc:
Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Monday, March 1, 2010 12:45 PM
B6
H
 --- 


 --- 

B6
 --- 


 --- 

Your fans are here by the hundreds and eagerly awaiting your speech on the 12th!
As you know the US has been a strong supporter of a new women's agency at the UN that would provide for an Under
Secretary General for women's issues, better coordination and effectiveness and-- consolidation of a group of smaller
entities. In bilats today, I learned that some G77 countries are wondering what's in it for them. They're not developing
countries and they're not the UK or US. Brazil may be second guessing the creation of the new agency yet this is an
agency that will benefit women everywhere. I don't know if you'll have an opportunity to say to Brazil's leader that we
hope the UN women's agency will continue to have their support. In fact Tom Shannon told me that they're really
interested in women's issues and wanted to sign a MOU with us. Sometimes there's a disconnect between NY perm reps
and their capitals
2nd, I don't know if you're still going to Chile. If you talk to Bachelet about her future, you can tell that so many govt reps
at the UN would like to see her head up the new women's agency. It's not clear if she's even interested.
Thx
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Smart money seems to be on the thing coming out OK tomorrow -- a heavy prologue on all the reasons they don't
believe the process will lead anywhere,
1.4(D)
B1'
Declassify on: 08/26/2040
 --- 

Tx
 --- 

Talked to Jack, who is meeting with Tom, Michele and Floss C tomorrow at 730 on AfPak and will raise the Chile issue.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B6
 --- 


 --- 

Yep -- will follow up.
 --- 


 --- 

Possibility of Senate Run, Nurtured and Abandoned By MICHAEL BARBARO March 03, 2010 New York Times
A few weeks ago, Harold E. Ford Jr. had a telephone conversation with his friend Doug Band, the powerful counselor to
former President Bill Clinton.
Mr. Ford, the former Tennessee congressman who now works on Wall Street, wanted to discuss a potential challenge to
Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand in New York's Democratic primary, a possibility he had flirted with for weeks.
But Mr. Band was not encouraging. He told Mr. Ford that with Democrats reeling from political setbacks across the
country, it would be bad for the party and his career if he entered the race. "It's not the right thing to do," he said,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the conversation.
A Ford spokesman confirmed the call but denied that Mr. Ford had been discouraged from running or that he had been
told that doing so would hurt the party. The spokesman said Mr. Band told him the White House had pressured Mr.
Clinton into supporting Ms. Gillibrand.
Mr. Ford's decision not to run for the Senate, which he disclosed on Tuesday, came after he reached out to dozens of
donors, advocates and political leaders. In private conversations, the same worries emerged: that a race against Ms.
Gillibrand would be a brutal fight, dominated by endless debates about when he began paying taxes as a New York
resident and the sincerity of his support for gay marriage and abortion rights.
A campaign that he had hoped would focus on tax cuts and job growth would instead, he feared, become mired in
discussions of "who got there first, and who meant it the most," on social issues, he told an associate. That might allow a
Republican opponent to swoop in and take the seat from the bloodied Democratic nominee.
What seemed to weigh on him, interviews with dozens of people who have met and spoken to his advisers revealed,
was not his status as a carpetbagger who had moved to New York from Tennessee, but rather the reality that there were
few easy constituencies for him to grab on to, outside of Wall Street, where he has worked since moving here in 2006.
Many spoke on the condition of anonymity because they did not want to be seen as disclosing private conversations.
As he hopscotched from city to city, charming crowds with bits of his Southern biography, signs of trouble for Mr. Ford
emerged. His voting record in Congress put him on the right fringes of state Democrats, and his $2 million-a-year job at
Merrill Lynch made it hard to run as a Scott Brown-style populist.
What seemed like an improbable, even impossible campaign had its roots in conversations, many dating back a year,
among Mr. Ford, 39, and a coterie of powerful friends from New York City, Washington and Los Angeles.
Over dinner last July at the Post House, a clubby steakhouse on the Upper East Side, Richard Plepler, a co-president of
HBO, urged Mr. Ford to restart his political career in New York. "I think you should give this serious thought," he said, of
the Senate race. Mr. Ford replied that he would.
After the dinner, Mr. Plepler sent an e-mail message to Douglas E. Schoen, a top Democratic pollster, to bounce the idea
off him. Mr. Schoen was intrigued, and as he studied public polls, became convinced that Mr. Ford's best shot at
reaching the Senate was to wage a campaign against Ms. Gillibrand.
Over the next few months, Mr. Ford sounded out many of New York's wealthiest and most politically connected
executives, frequently over breakfast at the Regency Hotel on Park Avenue: Robert Wolf, the head of the United States
investment banking division at UBS; Ronald Perelman, the billionaire chairman of Revlon; and Steven Rattner, the
founder of Quadrangle, the private equity firm, all of whom are big Democratic donors.
Mr. Rattner told Mr. Ford, who is also a political analyst on NBC, that money would not be a problem. "You can raise the
money," he told him in December.
Yet several big-name donors warned him that Ms. Gillibrand, a relentless campaigner, had beaten him to the punch.
"She has already locked a lot of Wall Street up" was the message that Marc Lasry, a billionaire hedge fund manager,
conveyed to Mr. Ford in a telephone conversation.
As Mr. Ford traveled outside New York City, especially upstate, he found political support for Ms. Gillibrand to be
shallow, and the hunger for change palpable. The mayor of Syracuse, Stephanie Miner, told him that residents there
were "scared and desperate" about the economy, and she told Mr. Ford that Ms. Gillibrand was a rare presence in her
city.
But Ms. Gillibrand's strategy of portraying Mr. Ford as a showboating out-of-towner was starting to stick. In late January,
the head of the Brooklyn Democratic Party, Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, held a luncheon for Mr. Ford, and invited local
lawmakers. During a two-hour question-and-answer session, Marty Markowitz, the borough president, pointed to
several up-and-coming state senators around the room and observed that all of them had greater experience in New
York politics than Mr. Ford.
"With all due respect," he asked Mr. Ford, "why do you think you have what it takes to be New York's senator?"
Even lawmakers who seemed open to a Ford candidacy warned him that peeling away support from Ms. Gillibrand
would be harder than it seemed.
Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president, told Mr. Ford between bites of an omelet at a diner near his office, "It's
difficult to make a strong case against her here." Ms. Gillibrand, he explained, had just secured $4 million worth of
federal stimulus money to train his constituents for green jobs. Mr. Ford knew that some liberals would attack his
relatively conservative voting record but, those he spoke with said, he was taken aback by the depth of the anger he
encountered from advocates for abortion rights and gay marriage.
After reporters found examples of Mr. Ford calling himself pro-life during his time in Congress, Mr. Ford vehemently
pushed back, saying he had always supported a woman's right to choose. He assumed that would put the matter to rest.
It did not. "He was dumbfounded that it kept tripping him up," a friend said.
One of Mr. Ford's top advisers, Bradley Tusk, the campaign manager for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's 2009 re-election,
arranged a meeting for Mr. Ford with a close Bloomberg ally, Kelli Conlin, the head of Naral-Pro Choice of New York. Mr.
Ford expected a polite conversation that would help neutralize a foe. Ms. Conlin, however, started the meeting by
quizzing Mr. Ford on his voting record and public statements.
Did he realize, she asked, that he had backed legislation that would outlaw late-term abortions even when a woman's
health is in danger?
Far from conciliatory, Mr. Ford wanted to know why Naral allowed Ms. Gillibrand to vote for a health care bill that cut
off financing for abortions. "You gave her a pass," he said. Before leaving, Mr. Ford told Ms. Conlin that if he chose to
run he hoped to return to ask for the group's support. Ms. Conlin responded: "We can never support you if you take
these positions." Mr. Ford "looked shocked," a person in the room said.
His meeting with gay rights advocates on Feb. 24 was rockier still. When he walked into the headquarters of the
Stonewall Democrats in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, he was greeted by signs that read "Liar!" and "Go
home snake oil Harry," a reference to his recent support for gay marriage after having twice voted to outlaw it in
Congress.
A few days later, the results of a poll that Mr. Ford had paid for out of his own pocket began to trickle in, giving his
advisers pause. His negative ratings had increased slightly. A liberal primary electorate seemed wary about portions of
his record. Ms. Gillibrand remained vulnerable, the data showed, but Mr. Ford's chance seemed to be 50-50. "It was not
a slam dunk, at all," said a person who spoke with him and was briefed on the data.
Mr. Tusk had told associates that to win, Mr. Ford needed 80 percent of the state's black vote, a tall order, but not
inconceivable for an African-American in a Democratic primary. But by the end of the week, Gov. David A. Paterson and
Representative Charles B. Rangel had become embroiled in ethics scandals. New York's black political elite was in
seeming disarray, just when he needed them to be organized and unified.
By Sunday, he had made up his mind not to run. He told his wife, Emily, and his father, former Representative Harold
Ford Sr. He began to call friends the next evening, leaving many of them brief messages.
"I'm not going to run this time," he said in one message. "Thank you for your support."
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

I am currently out of the office on official travel and will be checking e-mail periodically. If you need immediate
assistance, please call 202-647-9572.
 --- 

I understand from Joe that you are reviewing the key material for the human rights reports. You might talk to Mike
Fuchs, who I asked to go thru the key reports with a fine-toothed comb.
 --- 

Thanks. Got it. Hope they will think carefully on VP. Will follow up on other items.
 --- 

Thanks, glad I can help. Looking forward to going back. Leaving Sunday, stopping in Paris to do some civil nuclear
meetings then into Geneva to meet with Antonev on Tuesday.
Looking forward to talking when convenient on secure line this weekend.
 --- 

Armenian Genocide Resolution vote in committee: 23 yes/22 no. Gavel just went down.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Just a quick note to tell you that we are moving forward on the Expo funding. KIT came in at $500k, McGraw Hill at
$200k, Intel at $250k more, Delos Living (a Mantz client) $250k, and CITI at a minimum of $2M brings us down to $3.7M.
The following are on deck and likely to come in soon - Boeing (more), Carlyle, Blackstone, Alcoa, and AECOM. EB and I
chatting with many others.
 --- 

B6
 --- 

Will do. Think we are in good shape. Immelt, Indra and Huntsman making calls. Mark Penn and Terry very helpful.
 --- 

Shall we try for today while you are in air? I'll have Ops work it for us. If corns don't cooperate their Sunday is best me.
I'm on the road Saturday and it will be difficult to go secure.
Safe travels.
Ellen
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Friday, March 5, 2010 9:52 AM
H: More trouble for Tories and Cameron. He needs to support NI peace, not another
problem. Sid
March 5, 2010
New blow for Tories as lead slips in marginals
By Nigel Morris and Michael Savage
Poll shows crumbling support in target seats as David
Cameron is drawn into Ashcroft non-dom row
The Conservative lead is crumbling in the crucial marginal seats that David Cameron is relying on to deliver general
election victory for the party, a poll last night disclosed.
The result was a fresh setback for the Tory leader after a torrid day in which he was drawn deeper into the row over the
billionaire peer Lord Ashcroft, when it emerged that he had known for less than a month that Lord Ashcroft had
maintained his non-dom tax status for 10 years.
The chances of the party drawing a line under the controversy were also wrecked by the announcement that Lord
Ashcroft will be summoned to the Commons to explain why he negotiated a secret deal to enter the House of Lords
without paying tax in this country on his overseas fortune.
With Gordon Brown expected to announce the election date this month, senior Tories have put a brave face on their
sliding support in national opinion polls since the turn of the year.
They insisted they were performing much more strongly in marginal constituencies where the drive for votes has been
masterminded and substantially funded by Lord Ashcroft.
The YouGov poll for Channel 4 News found the Tory lead in 60 Labour-held marginals had shrunk from seven to just two
points over the past year.
The slide in Conservative support is further evidence Britain could be heading for a hung parliament after the election
expected on 6 May. The survey put the Tories on 39 per cent (down four points since last year) and Labour on 37 per cent
(up one). YouGov calculated that the results would leave the Tories the largest party after the election, but 11 seats short
of an overall Commons majority.
An investigation by The Independent last week found the Tories spent £6m over two years in the marginal battlegrounds,
in most cases far outspending Labour and the Liberal Democrats.
The party faces the daunting challenge of capturing 117 seats to achieve a majority of just one - a task described by a
shadow cabinet member as a "mountain to climb".
The Conservatives received some good news yesterday when an 18-month inquiry by the Electoral Commission
concluded that the £5.1m they received in donations from Bearwood Corporate Services, controlled by Lord Ashcroft,
were legal. The party would have faced having to pay the money back had the electoral watchdog reached the opposite
conclusion.
However, the commission added its regret that the Tories refused to agree to interviews and that Lord Ashcroft had
destroyed documents relating to the ownership of the company.
 --- 


 --- 

B6
 --- 

RELEASE IN PART
B1,1.4(B),1.4(D),B6
 --- 

During the transition, Time.com did a top ten cabinet members list. Reich was #9.
See list below.
Harold L. Ickes
2.
Henry Wallace
3.
Henry Morgenthau Jr.
4.
George Marshall
5.
Robert F. Kennedy
6.
William Ruckelshaus
7.
Elizabeth Dole
8.
Richard Riley
9.
Robert Reich
10.
Robert Gates
Here is what they wrote about Reich:
Robert Reich
Secretary of Labor, 1993-1997
A former Rhodes Scholar, Reich served as the 22nd Labor Secretary under President Bill Clinton. Among his
accomplishments were helping to implement the Family and Medical Leave Act, raising the minimum wage and leading a
crackdown on sweatshops. He currently serves as an adviser to President-elect Barack Obama and is a professor at the
University of California, Berkeley.
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, March 5, 2010 4:37 PM
FYI WJC
 --- 

Final[1] jjs.docx; Draft_S-McGuinness_Call_Sheet-FINAL[1] jjs.docx
You had signed off on making these Ireland calls with jake for tomorrow morning as well so we are reaching out.
 --- 

March 15, 2010
Op-Ed Columnist
Taking On China
By PAUL KRUGMAN
Tensions are rising over Chinese economic policy, and rightly so: China's policy of keeping its currency, the renminbi,
undervalued has become a significant drag on global economic recovery. Something must be done.
To give you a sense of the problem: Widespread complaints that China was manipulating its currency — selling renminbi
and buying foreign currencies, so as to keep the renminbi weak and China's exports artificially competitive — began
around 2003. At that point China was adding about $10 billion a month to its reserves, and in 2003 it ran an overall
surplus on its current account — a broad measure of the trade balance — of $46 billion.
Today, China is adding more than $30 billion a month to its $2.4 trillion hoard of reserves. The International Monetary
Fund expects China to have a 2010 current surplus of more than $450 billion — 10 times the 2003 figure. This is the most
distortionary exchange rate policy any major nation has ever followed.
And it's a policy that seriously damages the rest of the world. Most of the world's large economies are stuck in a liquidity
trap — deeply depressed, but unable to generate a recovery by cutting interest rates because the relevant rates are
already near zero. China, by engineering an unwarranted trade surplus, is in effect imposing an anti-stimulus on these
economies, which they can't offset.
So how should we respond? First of all, the U.S. Treasury Department must stop fudging and obfuscating.
Twice a year, by law, Treasury must issue a report identifying nations that "manipulate the rate of exchange between their
currency and the United States dollar for purposes of preventing effective balance of payments adjustments or gaining
unfair competitive advantage in international trade." The law's intent is clear: the report should be a factual determination,
not a policy statement. In practice, however, Treasury has been both unwilling to take action on the renminbi and unwilling
to do what the law requires, namely explain to Congress why it isn't taking action. Instead, it has spent the past six or
seven years pretending not to see the obvious.
Will the next report, due April 15, continue this tradition? Stay tuned.
If Treasury does find Chinese currency manipulation, then what? Here, we have to get past a common misunderstanding:
the view that the Chinese have us over a barrel, because we don't dare provoke China into dumping its dollar assets.
What you have to ask is, What would happen if China tried to sell a large share of its U.S. assets? Would interest rates
soar? Short-term U.S. interest rates wouldn't change: they're being kept near zero by the Fed, which won't raise rates
until the unemployment rate comes down. Long-term rates might rise slightly, but they're mainly determined by market
expectations of future short-term rates. Also, the Fed could offset any interest-rate impact of a Chinese pullback by
expanding its own purchases of long-term bonds.
It's true that if China dumped its U.S. assets the value of the dollar would fall against other major currencies, such as the
euro. But that would be a good thing for the United States, since it would make our goods more competitive and reduce
our trade deficit. On the other hand, it would be a bad thing for China, which would suffer large losses on its dollar
holdings. In short, right now America has China over a barrel, not the other way around.
So we have no reason to fear China. But what should we do?
Some still argue that we must reason gently with China, not confront it. But we've been reasoning with China for years, as
its surplus ballooned, and gotten nowhere: on Sunday Wen Jiabao, the Chinese prime minister, declared — absurdly —
that his nation's currency is not undervalued. (The Peterson Institute for International Economics estimates that the
renminbi is undervalued by between 20 and 40 percent.) And Mr. Wen accused other nations of doing what China actually
does, seeking to weaken their currencies "just for the purposes of increasing their own exports."
But if sweet reason won't work, what's the alternative? In 1971 the United States dealt with a similar but much less severe
problem of foreign undervaluation by imposing a temporary 10 percent surcharge on imports, which was removed a few
months later after Germany, Japan and other nations raised the dollar value of their currencies. At this point, it's hard to
see China changing its policies unless faced with the threat of similar action — except that this time the surcharge would
have to be much larger, say 25 percent.
I don't propose this turn to policy hardball lightly. But Chinese currency policy is adding materially to the world's economic
problems at a time when those problems are already very severe. It's time to take a stand.
Home
• World
• U.S.
• N.Y. / Region
• Business
• Technology
• Science
• Health
• Sports
• Opinion
• Arts
• Style
• Travel
• Jobs
• Real Estate
• Automobiles
• Back to Top
Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
• Privacy Policy
• Terms of Service
• Search
• Corrections
• RSS
• First Look
• Help
• Contact Us
• Work for Us
• Site Map
 --- 

We are working with Jake on some very good ideas that Bruce Jentleson has put forward, but I want to plant one idea
for you to mull.
 --- 

See original email PA
 --- 

For hrc and wjc
of Little Rock B6
 --- 

Ma'am — Jake tells me that you are tired of the Lamplighter story. I'm sorry, I didn't know. But the Belfast people have
come up with a FANTASTIC story -- apparently, as per your request, they have tracked down the two kids who won the
peace essay contest in the 90s, and they are doing great things -- one is a teacher, one is a police officer. They are now
reaching out to get permission for you to tell their stories tomorrow night; assuming they will grant it, I am writing up
their stories now and will fax a revised draft to you shortly.
Sorry for the Lamplighter redux; I'll let Lissa know it's off-limits for at least a few years.
 --- 

Ok, he's definitely keeping a very open mind Seeing him at 10:30am to suggest a few little things as baby steps
 --- 

Trying - they are a bit mad on two proper grounds - will make other donors less likel to give and our congress less likely
to give
 --- 

Removing Megan. Lamplighter is teapot story with Joyce McCarran that you stripped from Stormont. Here is what I
wrote to Megan (nothing about it being "off-limits"!):
"She cut the Lamplighter example from her Stormont speech because she thinks she's played it out. Not sure how she'll
feel about it in this speech."
 --- 

Lamplighter is teapot story with Joyce McCarran
 --- 

Agree - did you reach FM cannon
 --- 

Voda ebeling <
Tuesday, March 16, 2010 5:26 PM
H; abedinh@state.gov
Fw: The bride
Forwarded Message ----
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

On the Hill this afternoon went pretty well. Will give you the full run down tomorrow morning.
 --- 

PIR <preines(
Wednesday, March 17, 2010 12:59 AM
Huma Abedin
Steinberg Project: First (Baby) Step
http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/03/when-a-schedule-is-more-than-a-schedule/37587/
When A Schedule Is More Than A Schedule
By Marc Am binder
The Atlantic.com
Mar 16 2010, 9:45 PM ET
Close observers of the State Department noticed something different this afternoon: on the daily schedule distributed
by the department includes, for the first time, information on Deputy Secretary of State Jim Steinberg's appointments.
Until recently, the daily release included Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's schedule only. No longer.
"Steinberg will meet Wednesday with Singaporean Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean."
The inclusion of Steinberg suggests that the department is aware that it needs to do a better job of integrating
Steinberg's portfolio into its general communications strategy and show how the leadership of the department acts in
concert.
"Jim has always been an integral part of the Secretary's team, but we haven't always shown how crucial he is to State's
mission," said Philippe Reines, Clinton's communications consiglieri. "This is a one simple way to fix that."
The Beltway rumor mill often includes gossip that Steinberg isn't happy, or that he's not seen as an integral part of
President Obama's foreign policy team, or that his efforts aren't appreciated.
Reines, who rarely speaks on the record, responded to a question about whether Steinberg is indeed unhappy in this
way: "I'm not a shrink, and I have to confess that we don't sit around in a circle often enough exploring our feelings. But
what is crystal clear to everyone is that Jim is smart, dedicated, and valued."
Steinberg has a been a principal adviser on issues ranging from Iran -- he is the administration's team lead, cybersecurity
and China (he's been tasked with pressuring China into accepting tougher sanctions on Iran), but his work often goes
unnoticed.
On Friday, he is said to have given a tongue-lashing to the Israeli Ambassador to the U.S., Michael Oren, about that
country's actions during a visit by Vice President Biden.
When President Obama selected Gen. Jim Jones as National Security Adviser, he asked Clinton to make Steinberg her
deputy -- and she did. Since day one, prognosticators have been predicting friction between Steinberg and Clinton,
although none has publicly surfaced.
 --- 

Busy day yesterday - highlights:
-haiti delivered its vision, fine but needs work and cost alignment (3 year cost exceeds 78 with total need put at 11B for
complete rebuild - neither are great numbers based on analysis so work cont)
- discussion and presentation of both dev authority and MDTF (which is open for contributions now and will be
administered by WB with support from IDB)
- bellerive or preval to announce wjc in context of release on dev authority - supposedly today but if preval wants to
announce from Haiti that won't occur until thurs and will drive us all wild so pushing for today
-EC says it will do essentially 100M that is new (rest is 200M being repurposed; 100M - of which 20M is only new - being
repurposed). Of their repurposed money, 40M euros will go to debt support by end of april)
- France will do 70M euros a year for 2 years (upping their traditional annual contrib by SOM euros from 20M euros);
french will do some budget supp
- seeing spain, canada, and pot today
-tentatively seeing cubans today to discuss hospital cooperation proposal they sent as result of craighulissa last trip
-lots of whispering re timing of usg human rts report and a few pointed ques re our motivation on timing given pre-conf
and cont on 31Mar; preval still very upset - will be calling him on thurs as a post conf cony and hear him out
- pressure for budget support on everyone; french pointed out US says it doesnt do budget supp but sends 500M each
year to palestian auth in direct budget support suggesting we will do it when politically expedient for us
- worry about the rains and cont need for shelter (been raining in PauP for last 3 days).
Cdm
 --- 

H: In case you haven't seen it, this is the fully articulated view of the Netanyahu government and Likud about "the crisis."
-ihe New Republic is a preferred cutlet for the highest level Likudineocon propaganda. ?Viichae! Oren, a channel for Israeli
Intel, was a frequent contributor in the past. On a lower level; so was Michael Ledeen when he was trafficking
disinformation. The New Republic was critical in undermining Carter when he pressed Begin Israeli intel used Ledeen
and TNR to put out the stories on Billy Carter. But TNR is only one key being hit in the Wurlitzer. Here's one small but
frank thing: Axelrod should not be a foreign policy spokesman on any issue or area. He has badly exacerbated this one.
Many people in the press feel he's out of his lane and resent being lectured by him on foreq..3n policy. Foreign Policy
magazine website has run a piece on this, reflecting widespread sentiment. (I've enclosed this article bellow the TNR one
below.) I'd make Steinberg tell Donilon they need to rein in Axelrod. Axelrod has enough to do fixing the domestic messes
he's made. Let it come from Steinberg. He's unhappy anyway. Sid
http://www.tnr.corniarticie/world/the-crisis?page=0,0
Ea
Published on The New Republic
Was Obama's confrontation with Israel premeditated'?
Yossi Klein Halevi
4. March 16, 2010 17:13 pm
JERUSALEM—Suddenly, my city feels again like a war zone..Since the suicide bombings ended in 2005, life in
Jerusalem has been for the most part relatively calm. The worst disruptions have been the traffic jams resulting from
construction of a light rail. jUst like in a normal city. But navy, again, there are clusters of helmeted border nOtiCe near the
gates of the Old City. black smoke from burning tires in the Arab village across from my porch, young men marching with
green Islamist flags toward my neighborhood, ambulances parked at strategic places ready for this city's ultimate
nightmare.
The return of menace to Jerusalem is not because a mid-level bureaucrat announced stage four of a seven-stage process
in the eventual construction oft,600 apartments in Ramat Shiomo. a Jewish neighborhood in northeast Jerusalem. Such
announcements and building projects have become so routine over the years that Paestinians have scarcely responded,
let alone violently. In negotiations between Palestinians and Israelis, the permanence of Ramat Shiomo, and other Jewish
neighborhoods in East Jerusalem, has been a given. Ramat Shlomo, located between the Jewish neighborhoods of
French Hill and Rarrot, will remain within the boundaries of Israeli Jerusalem accord ng to every peace plan. Unlike the
Snail Jewish enclaves inserted into Arab neighbochoocis, on which Israelis are strongly buliding in the established
Jewish neighborhoods of East Jerusalem defines the national consensus.
Why, then, the outbreak of violence now? Why Harness "day of rage" over Jerusalem and the Palestinian Authority's call
to gather on the Temple Mount to "save" the Dome of the Rock from non-existent plans to build the Third Temple? Why
the sudden outrage over rebuilding a synagogue, destroyed by the Jordanians in 1948, in the Old City's Jewish Quarter,
when dozens of synagogues and yeshivas have been built in the quarter without incident?
The answer lies not in Jerusalem but in Washington. By placing the issue of building in Jewish neighborhoods in East
Jerusalem at the center of the peace process, President Obama has inadvertently challenged the Palestinians to do no
less.
Astonishingly. Obama is repeating the key tactical mistake of his failed efforts to restart Middle East peace talks over the
last year. Though Oben-la's insistence on a settlement freeze to help restart negotiations was legitimate, he went a step
too far by including building in East Jerusalem. Every Israeli government over the last four decades has built in the Jewish
neighborhoods of East Jerusalem; no government, let alone one headed by the Likud, could possibly agree to a freeze
there. Obama made resumption of negotiations hostage to a demand that could not be met. The result was that
Palestinian leaders were forced to adjust their demands accordingly.
Obama is directly responsible for one of the most absurd turns in the history of Middle East negotiations. Though
Palestinian leaders negotiated with Israeli governments that built extensively in the West Bank, they now refused to sit
down with the first Israeli government to actually agree to a suspension of building. Obama's demand for a building freeze
in Jerusalem led to a freeze in negotiations.
Finally, after intensive efforts, the administration produced the pathetic achievement of "proximity talks"—setting
Palestinian-Israeli negotiations back a generation, to the time when Palestinian leaders refused to sit at the same table
with Israelis.
That Obama could be guilty of such amateurishness was perhaps forgivable because he was, after ail, an amateur. But
he has now taken his failed policy and intensified it. By demanding that Israel stop building in Ramat Shlomo and
elsewhere in East Jerusalem—and placing that demand at the center of American-Israeli relations—he's ensured that the
Palestinians won't show up even to proximity talks. This is no longer amateurishness; it is pique disguised as policy.
Initially, when the announcement about building in Ramat Shlomo was made, Israelis shared Vice President Biden's
humiliation and were outraged at their government's incompetence. The widespread sense here was that Netanyahu
deserved the administration's condemnation, not because of what he did but because of what he didn't do: He failed to
convey to all parts of his government the need for caution during Biden's visit, symptomatic of his chaotic style of
governing generally.
But not even the opposition accused Netanyahu of a deliberate provocation. These are not the days of Yitzhak Shamir,
the former Israeli prime minister who used to greet a visit from Secretary of State James Baker with an announcement of
the creation of another West Bank settlement. Netanyahu has placed the need for strategic cooperation with the U.S. on
the Iranian threat ahead of the right-wing political agenda. That's why he included the Labor Party into his coalition, and
why he accepted a two-state solution—an historic achievement that set the Likud, however reluctantly, within the
mainstream consensus supporting Palestinian statehood. The last thing Netanyahu wanted was to embarrass Biden
during his goodwill visit and trigger a clash with Obama over an ultra-Orthodox neighborhood.
Nor is it likely that there was a deliberate provocation from the ultra-Orthodox Shas party, which runs the interior ministry
that oversees building procedures. Shas, which supports peace talks and territorial compromise, is not a nationalist party.
Its interest is providing housing for its constituents, like the future residents of Ramat Shlomo; provoking international
incidents is not its style.
Finally, the very ordinariness of the building procedure—the fact that construction in Jewish East Jerusalem is considered
by Israelis routine—is perhaps the best proof that there was no intentional ambush of Biden. Apparently no one in the
interior ministry could imagine that a long-term plan over Ramat Shiomo would sabotage a state visit.
In turning an incident into a crisis, Obama has convinced many Israelis that he was merely seeking, a pretext to pick a fight
with Israel. Netanyahu was inadvertently shabby; Obama, deliberately so.
Ac.t,cording to a banner headline in the newspaper Ma'ariv, senior Likud officials believe that Obama's goal is to topple the
Netanyahu government, by encouraging those in the Labor Party who want to quit the coalition.
The popular assumption is that Obama is seeking to prove his resolve as a leader by getting tough with Israel. Given his
ineffectiveness against Iran and his tendency to violate his own self-imposed deadlines for sanctions, the Israeli public is
not likely to be impressed. Indeed, Israelis' initial anger at Netanyahu has turned to anger against Obama. According to an
Israel Radio poll on March 16, 62 percent of Israelis blame the Obama administration for the crisis, while 20 percent
blame Netanyahu. (Another 17 percent blame Shas leader Eli Yishai.) •
In the last year, the administration has not once publicly condemned the Palestinians for lack of good faith—even though
the Palestinian Authority media has, for example, been waging a months-long campaign denying the Jews' historic roots
in Jerusalem. Just after Biden left Ramailah, Palestinian officials held a ceremony naming a square in the city after a
terrorist responsible for the massacre of 38 Israeli civilians. That too didn't merit an administration rebuke.
Obama's one-sided public pressure against Israel could intensify the atmosphere of "open season" against Israel
internationally. Indeed, the European Union has reaffirmed it is linking improved economic relations with Israel to the
resumption of the peace process—as if it's Israel rather than the Palestinians that has refused to come to the table.
If the administration's main tactical error in Middle East negotiating was emphasizing building in Jerusalem, its main
strategic error was assuming that a two-state solution was within easy reach. Shortly after Obama took office, Rehm
Emanuel vvas quoted in the Israeli press insisting that a Palestinian state would be created within Obama's first tent.
instead, a year later, we are in the era of suspended proximity talks. Now the administration is demanding that Israel
negotiate over final status issues in proximity talks as a way of convincing the Palestinians to agree to those talks--as if
Israelis would agree to discuss the future of Jerusalem when Palestinian leaders refuse to even sit with them.
To insist on the imminent possibility of a two-state solution requires amnesia. Biden's plea to Israelis to consider a
withdrawal to an approximation of the 1967 borders in exchange for peace ignored the fact that Israel made that offer
twice in the last decade: first, when Prime Minister Ehud Barak accepted the Clinton Proposals of December 2000, and
then more recently when Prime Minister Ehud Olmert renewed the offer to Mahrnoud Abbas. Abbas, says Olmert, never
replied.
The reason for Palestinian rejection of a two-state solution is because a deal would require Palestinians to confine the
return of the descendants of the 1948 refugees to Palestine rather than to Israel. That would prevent a two-state solution
from devolving into a bi-national, one-state solution. Israel's insistence on survival remains the obstacle to peace.
To achieve eventual peace, the international community needs to pressure Palestinian leaders to forgo their claim to Haifa
and Jaffa and confine their people's right of return to a future Palestinian state--just as the Jews will need to forgo their
claim to Hebron and Bethlehem and confine their people's right of return to the state of Israel. That is the only possible
deal: conceding my right of return to Greater Israel in exchange for your right of return to Greater Palestine. A majority of
Israelis—along with the political system—has accepted that principle. On the Palestinian side, the political system has
rejected it.
In the absence of Palestinian willingness to compromise on the right of return, negotiations should not focus on a two-
state solution but on more limited goals.
There have been positive signs of change on the Palestinian side in the last few years. The rise of Hamas has created
panic within Fatah, and the result is, for the first time, genuine security cooperation with Israel. Also, the emergence of
Salem Fayyad as Palestinian prime minister marks a shift from ideological to pragmatic leadership (though Fayyad still
lacks a power base). Finally, the West Bank economy is growing, thanks in part to Israel's removal of dozens of
roadblocks. The goal of negotiations at this point in the conflict should be to encourage those trends.
But by focusing on building in Jerusalem, Obama has undermined that possibility too. To the fictitious notion of a peace
process, Obama has now added the fiction of an intransigent Israel blocking the peace process.
The administration, according to a report in the Israeli ne\Aispaper Yedito Aharonot, is making an even more insidious
accusation against Israel. During his visit, wrote Yediot Aharanot, Bicien told Israeli leaders that their policies are
endangering American lives in Afghanistan and Iraq. The report has been denied in the White House. Whether or not the
remark was made, what is clear today in Jerusalem is that Obama's recklessness is endangering Israeli--and Palestinian--
lives. As I listen to police sirens outside my window, Obama's political Intifada against Netanyahu seems to be turning into
a third intifada over Jerusalem.
Yossi Klein Ha/evils a senior fellow of the She/em Center in Jerusalem, and a contributing editor of The New Republic.
WM David Axelrod please be quiet, pease?
Posted By 4 '¦ (I? "
nikrionday, March 15, 2010
Commentary's Jqr2-.)ifese,
,e]'pp.1 is reacting way out of proportion to par,. inclav morninitalk
That said, she's got a germ of a good point:
David Axelrod — a political operative who now seems at the center of foreign-policy formulation (more on
this later) — went on the Fox, ABC, and NBC Sunday talk shows to repeat how insulted the Obami were
over Israeli building in Jerusalem and what an atf;:atet this was to them....
[I]t might have something to do with the fact that Axelrod and the Chicago pols are running foreign policy.
It's attack, attack, attack -- just as they do any domestic critic.
Quibble away with Rubin's characterization of "Chicago pols," but she does raise a decent question: why on God's green
earth is the Obama equivalent of Karl Rove talking about foreign policy in public?
Since the tri2 from:Hag, its clear that the Obama administration has ratcheted up the rhetoric taiLvate, irLpublic, in
press_leaks and throupo.r.:“.!;':.ib. E,
,
r,a! oN.-
1.n.rq31,5 to their Israeli counterparts. Given what transpired, it's entirely.ap.oropriate
that the Obama administration make its displeasure felt publicly.
Why Axelrod, however? Sure, the Sunday morning talk shows wanted to talk health care as well. And it's true that
Axelrod, thought of as pro-Israel, could send a tough signal. Still, couldn't the administration have sent Hillary Clinton to
one of the Sunday morning talk shows instead? Wouldn't she have been the more appropriate spokesman.
I've spent enought time inside the Beltway to be leery of the gossipy tidbits I collect when I'm down there. That said, there
was one persistent drumbeat I heard during my last sojourn -- that Axelrod and the politicai advisors were acting as
Obama's foreign policy gatekeepers.
Now, I am shocked, shocked, that cciiiticialv., :hirkinc aciout foreimi oa!icv :n manner. That said, there is a
balance to be struck between political and policy advisors. Even David Frum admitted that this baiaiv otout ofhihatc.i<
during the Bush administration. I'd like to see things return to to the pre-21st century equilibrium. It would be disturbing if
the new equilibrium is that someone like David Axelrod becomes the foreign policy czar.
 --- 

Waiting at Nora's now with Jackie for Shaun and his wife Camilla, you're welcome to join us. If you're around Sunday joe
Wilson is coming by to show the cut of the film about him and valerie starring Sean Penn. just us
and Joe and the film. Everything you've done on NI has had a beneficial effect. All good. This is a happy St Pat's Sid Sent
via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

Did some research on Saving Americas Treasures. Looks like it is funded thru interior approps. Feinstein is Senate chair
and Norm Dicks is house chair. Moran will likely take over for Dicks, as he moves to take over defense subcommittee.
Happy to weigh in with both staffs, but you are also seeing Senator Feinstein this week for dinner. We can prepare a
short paper for her staff.
 --- 

Got it.
 --- 

Yes, we will. Thank you, Courtney
 --- 

German FM Westerwelle 930am
Sir Reg Empey 1030 am
Peter Robinson 1230pm
Martin McGuinness after 1230. His staff says he wants to talk today.
Catherine Ashton potentially today.
Condi Rice pushed to next week
 --- 

Ok we may miss ashton which wouldn't be end of world. Her staff has been emailing saying she's anxious to talk but they
haven't locked a time. I did tell her staff we weren't going to push russians to cancel quartet dinner.
 --- 

No windows at all yet from her team.
 --- 

Madam Secretary,
In addition to moving back Sir Reg Empey's call to 10:30, Ops has confirmed your call with
UK First Minister Robinson at 12:30.
Regards,
Courtney
 --- 

PIR <preines
Saturday, March 6, 2010 10:50 AM
H
Huma Abedin
Reminder: WaPo Call re Bob Barnett
Gentle reminder about the Bob Barnett profile he emailed you about. Story is being written by David Montgomery of the
Washington Post, and is slated to run tomorrow - so we need to do this today, the earlier the better.
All you have to do is call into Ops when you're ready, they will connect you to the reporter (and add me in)
Here's the reporters description on the piece: "...a large profile of Bob Barnett for the Style section. I know Barnett has
been a friend and counselor and campaign supporter over the years. I would like to ask Secretary Clinton her estimation
of what makes Barnett good at what he does, what he has meant to her in the various ways he has worked for her over
the years. And I would like to ask what she makes of how such a committed Democrat as Barnett is able to work so well
in his professional life for noted Republicans on book projects and other work. (A theme of the piece is how some say
Barnett harkens to a mythic time in Washington when players supposedly could more readily have relationships with
other side, even while sticking to principles in their political work)"
You have talked about Bob many times, but general points:
B5
 --- 

Carlos:
McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA@state.gov>
Thursday, March 18, 2010 6:24 AM
Pascual, Carlos (Mexico City)
Williams, James H (Mexico City); Dickson, John S; Castillo, Raymond A; Mills, Cheryl D;
Sullivan, Jacob J; DiMartino, Kitty; Douglas, Walter T; Macmanus, Joseph E
Strategic Communications
First, let me say how shocked we all were by the news over the weekend. I know this is a very difficult time for everyone
at the Mission and our thoughts are with all of you.
I had a good conversation with Jim Williams about the strategic communications initiative and I wanted to bring you up
to speed on our thinking and where things stand with Keith.
Based on our discussions and the excellent paper that Jim prepared I think there are several critical areas that we need
to address:
• Work with our counterparts in the Mexican government to help them develop their capacity to handle the
communications aspects of the drug initiative more effectively
• Develop a process for ensuring the GOM and USG have clear, coordinated and consistent messaging on all
aspects of the initiative
• Increase public awareness in Mexico about "Merida" ; based on a report I got from INR last week there is very
little awareness or understanding of the program in Mexico and the contributions of USG
• Work with GOM to develop an on-going and effective communications strategy at all levels to provide people
across the country with information that is directly relevant to them and which they need to navigate their way
through this crisis. For example, what is going on in their community; what are local authorities doing; what
programs are available in their schools; what can they do, etc. I have increasingly come to believe that the lack
of this sort of "personally relevant" information at a time of crisis increases public anxiety and contributes to the
overall sense of things being out of control. We have begun to focus on this issue and have worked both in Haiti
and last year in Pakistan to provide people with a steady stream of information they can use. We are using a
wide array of communications tools to deliver these messages that allows the information to be delivered in a
very granular ,local, personal way. The other benefit of this approach is that it helps balance the steady stream
of gruesome news being put out by traditional media.
• Work with private sector in both Mexico and US to develop broad based PSA campaign to increase awareness of
the initiative and maintain public support for the effort
• Increase awareness in Mexico of USG efforts to combat drug use in US
Keith has reached out to a number of his associates at BDA and unfortunately he has met with some resistance to BDA
taking this project on. The personal safety issue seems to be the biggest concern. I do believe we will be able to
overcome this to some degree and I have some ideas which we can discuss when we next speak. In the meantime I have
reached out to Pat Mitchell of the Paley Center and she believes she will be able to help engage the US private sector
once we have a plan of action in place.
Finally, with regard to next week's trip by S, Jim feels it might be better for me to come to Mexico sometime in late April
rather than have it as part of next week's agenda. I am happy to do whatever works best for you. Keith is also prepared
to come next week or in April. Just let us know.
Judth
 --- 

Spoke to Joe and he is on board and all set re IFI. One concern is that Trini Vargo (frmr EMK staffer) is trying to redirect
money from IFI to her Irish Am Alliance for Mitchell scholarships. She will not succeed.
We'll work it out.
 --- 

I had breakfast w/ Dan this morning, who weighed in strongly and to my mind compellingly
 --- 

Wow, that was fast - and great
Don't worry about the reporter reading the quotes back to you, we're recording and he'll have the transcript shortly. I'm
guessing we just caught him at a bad moment and he's not as flaky as he sounds
 --- 

Yes - was more than ok
And you've read my mind, will make sure he sees
 --- 

I will be out of the office Wednesday March 17 through Friday March 19. I won't be carrying a blackberry and will have
very little access to email. Please call me through ops if it is urgent. Otherwise, please email Mike Fuchs at
fuchsmh@state.gov.
 --- 

Cool. Will tell Shaun.
 --- 

Peres said something similiar recently. Let me track down.
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Saturday, March 20, 2010 11:26 AM
Oscar Flores
Abu Mazen
I understand you are ok making the abu mazen call. Everyone agrees you should make it and they want you to do it
today. Can you do after marianne?
Below are points.
 --- 

Oh I apologize. Jake said he spoke with you about it and that you'd agreed to do it if mitchell recommended it. He does
recommend it, these are points from him about what to say. And they asked if you would do today.
III follow up.
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Saturday, March 20, 2010 11:35 AM
Re: Abu Mazen
They are in the original email I sent and pasting again below. Oscar should have printed.
B5
 --- 

Yup. Already did that.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, March 20, 2010 5:54 PM
H: fyi. sid
H: Uri Avnery, the Israeli analyst and activist, is privately circulating this analysis today. One consequence: Petraeus
cannot run as a Republican. At least Putin didn't bring his big dogs in with him like he did with Merkel. Cheers, Sid
Uri Avnery
20.3.10
The Doomsday Weapon
IT IS already a commonplace to say that people who don't learn from history are condemned
to repeat their mistakes.
Some 1942 years ago, the Jews in the province called Palaestina launched a revolt against the
Roman Empire. In retrospect, this looks like an act of madness. Palestine was a small and
insignificant part of the world-wide empire which had just won a crushing victory against the
rival power — the Parthian Empire (Persia) — and put down a major rebellion in Britain. What
chances could the Jewish revolt have?
God knows what was going on in the mind of the "Zealots". They eliminated the moderate
leaders, who warned against provoking the empire, and gained sway over the Jewish
population of the country. They relied on God. Perhaps they also relied on the Jews in Rome
and believed that their influence over the Senate would restrain the Emperor, Nero. Perhaps
they had heard that Nero was weak and about to fall.
We know how it ended: after three years, the rebels were crushed, Jerusalem fell and the
temple was burned down. The last of the Zealots committed suicide in Masada.
The Zionists did indeed try to learn from history. They acted in a rational way, did not provoke
the great powers, endeavored in every situation to attain what was possible. They accepted
compromises, and every compromise served them as a basis for the next surge forward. They
cleverly utilized the radical stance of their adversaries and gained the sympathy of the whole
world.
But since the beginning of the occupation, their mind has become clouded. The cult of
Masada has become dominant. Divine promises once again start to play a role in public
discourse. Large parts of the public are following the new zealots.
The next phase is also repeating itself: the leaders of Israel are starting a rebellion against the
new Rome.
WHAT BEGAN as an insult to the Vice President of the United States is developing into
something far bigger. The mouse has given birth to an elephant.
Lately, the ultra-right government in Jerusalem has started to treat President Barack Obama
with thinly veiled contempt. The fears that arose in Jerusalem at the beginning of his term
have dissipated. Obama looks to them like a paper black panther. He gave up his demand for a
real settlement freeze. Every time he was spat on, he remarked that it was raining.
Yet now, ostensibly quite suddenly, the measure is full. Obama, his Vice President and his
senior assistants condemn the Netanyahu government with growing severity. Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton has submitted an ultimatum: Netanyahu must stop all settlement activity,
East Jerusalem included; he must agree to negotiate about all core problems of the conflict,
including East Jerusalem, and more.
The surprise was complete. Obama, it seems, has crossed the Rubicon, much as the Egyptian
army had crossed the Suez Canal in 1973. Netanyahu gave the order to mobilize all the
reserves in America and to move forward all the diplomatic tanks. All Jewish organizations in
the US were commanded to join the campaign. AIPAC blew the shofar and ordered its
soldiers, the Senators and Congressmen, to storm the White House.
It seems that the decisive battle has been joined. The Israeli leaders were certain that Obama
would be defeated.
And then an unusual noise was heard: the sound of the doomsday weapon.
THE MAN who decided to activate it was a foe of a new kind.
David Petraeus is the most popular officer of the United States army. The four-star general,
son of a Dutch sea captain who went to America when his country was overrun by the Nazis,
stood out from early childhood. In West Point he was a "distinguished cadet", in Army
Command and General Staff College he was No. 1. As a combat commander, he reaped
plaudits. He wrote his doctoral thesis (on the lessons of Vietnam) at Princeton and served as
an assistant professor for international relations in the US Military Academy.
He made his mark in Iraq, when he commanded the forces in Mosul, the most problematical
city in the country. He concluded that in order to vanquish the enemies of the US he must win
over the hearts of the civilian population, acquire local allies and spend more money than
ammunition. The locals called him King David. His success was considered so outstanding
that his methods were adopted as the official doctrine of the American army.
His star rose rapidly. He was appointed commander of the coalition forces in Iraq and soon
became the chief of the Central Command of the US army, which covers the whole Middle East
, except Israel and Palestine (which "belong" to the American command in Europe).
When such a person raises his voice, the American people listen. As a respected military
thinker, he has no rivals.
THIS WEEK, Petraeus conveyed an unequivocal message: after reviewing the problems in his
AOR (Area Of Responsibility) — which includes, among others, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran,
Iraq and Yemen — he turned to what he called the "root causes of instability" in the region. The
list was topped by the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
In his report to the Armed Services Committee he stated: "The enduring hostilities between
Israel and some of its neighbors present distinct challenges to our ability to advance our
interests in the AOR...The conflict foments anti-American sentiment, due to a perception of
U.S. favoritism for Israel. Arab anger over the Palestinian question limits the strength and
depth of U.S. partnerships with governments and peoples in the AOR and weakens the
legitimacy of moderate regimes in the Arab world. Meanwhile, al-Qaeda and other militant
groups exploit that anger to mobilize support. The conflict also gives Iran influence in the
Arab world through its clients, Lebanese Hizballah and Hamas."
Not content with that, Petraeus sent his officers to present his conclusions to the Joint Chiefs
of Staff,
In other words: Israeli-Palestinian peace is not a private matter between the two parties, but a
supreme national interest of the USA. That means that the US must give up its one-sided
support for the Israeli government and impose the two-state solution.
The argument as such is not new. Several experts have said more or less the same in the past.
(Immediately after the 9/11 attacks, I wrote in a similar vein and prophesied that the US would
change its policy. It did not happen then.) But now this is being stated in an official document
written by the responsible American commander.
The Netanyahu government immediately went into damage-limitation mode. Its
spokespersons declared that Petraeus represents a narrow military approach, that he doesn't
understand political matters, that his reasoning is faulty. But it is not this that made people in
Jerusalem break out into cold sweat.
AS IS well known, the pro-Israel lobby dominates the American political system without limits
— almost. Every American politician and senior official is mortally afraid of it. The slightest
deviation from the strict AIPAC line is tantamount to political suicide.
But in the armor of this political Goliath there is a chink. Like Achilles' heel, the immense
might of the pro-Israel lobby has a vulnerable point that, when touched, can neutralize its
power.
It was illustrated by the Jonathan Pollard affair. This American-Jewish employee of a sensitive
intelligence agency spied for Israel. Israelis consider him a national hero, a Jew who did his
duty to his people. But for the US intelligence community, he is a traitor who endangered the
lives of many American agents. Not satisfied with a routine penalty, it induced the court to
impose a life sentence. Since then, all American presidents have refused the requests of
successive Israeli governments to commute the sentence. No president dared to confront his
intelligence chiefs in this matter.
But the most significant side of this affair is reminiscent of the famous words of Sherlock
Holmes about the dogs that did not bark. AIPAC did not bark. The entire American Jewish
community fell silent. Almost nobody raised their voice for poor Pollard.
Why? Because most American Jews are ready to do anything — just anything — for the
government of Israel. With one exception: they will not do anything that appears to hurt the
security of the United States. When the flag of security is hoisted, the Jews, like all Americans,
snap to attention and salute. The Damocles sword of suspicion of disloyalty hangs above their
heads. For them, this is the ultimate nightmare: to be accused of putting the security of Israel
ahead of the security of the US. Therefore it is important for them to repeat endlessly the
mantra that the interests of Israel and the US are identical.
And now comes the most important general of the US Army and says that this is not so. The
policy of the present Israeli government is endangering the lives of American soldiers in Iraq
and Afghanistan.
FOR NOW, this is being said only as a side remark, in a military document that has not been
widely aired. But the sword has been drawn from its scabbard - and American Jews have
started to tremble at the distant rumble of an approaching earthquake.
This week, Netanyahu's brother-in-law has used our own doomsday weapon. He declared that
Obama is an "anti-Semite". The official newspaper of the Shas party has asserted that Obama
is really a Muslim. They represent the radical right and its allies, who argue in speech and in
writing that "Hussein" Obama is a Jew-hating black who must be beaten in the coming
congressional elections and in the next presidential ones.
(Yet an important poll in Israel published yesterday shows that the Israeli public is far from
convinced by these insinuations: the vast majority believes that Obama's treatment of Israel is
fair. Indeed, Obama got higher marks than Netanyahu.)
If Obama decides to fight back and activate his doomsday weapon - the accusation that Israel
puts the lives of American servicemen at risk - this would have catastrophic consequences
for Israel.
For the time being, this is only a shot across the bow - a warning shot fired by a warship in
order to induce another vessel to follow its instructions. The warning is clear. Even if the
•present crisis is somehow damped down, it will inevitably flare up again and again as long as
the present coalition in Israel stays in power.
When the movie "Hurt Locker" won its awards, the entire American public was united in its
concern about the lives of its soldiers in the Middle East. If this public becomes convinced
that Israel is sticking a knife in their back, it will be a disaster for Netanyahu. And not just for
him.
 --- 

Shaun writes me: Two polls tomorrow will show massive support in NI for HC Agreement. Also two thirds of UUP voters
support the agreement and also devolution now. Reg isin effect totally detached and in danger of no longer leading his
Party!
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

To dc from ny at 9am so will call later - what works?
 --- 

Below is a proposed statement to go out in an hour or so. Also, did you see the Pakistanis arrested Adam Gadhan, the
American al Qaeda spokesman?
STATEMENT BY SECRETARY CLINTON
IRAQI NATIONAL ELECTIONS
I congratulate all the people of Iraq who participated in national elections today and over the past three days. There is
no better rebuke to the violent extremists who seek to derail Iraq's progress. Our thoughts and prayers are with the
families who lost friends and loved ones, and we salute the determination of the Iraqi people to reaffirm their
commitment to democracy and to charting their own future free of fear and intimidation.
Thanks to the efforts of the Iraq High Electoral Commission and the Iraqi Security Forces, which organized the voting and
ensured security at thousands of polling sites throughout the country, Iraqi men and women from all parts of the
country were able to go to the polls and choose their leaders freely.
I also would like to commend Ambassador Hill, General Odierno and all the U.S. civilian and military personnel who
supported this historic effort.
Iraqis have chosen a new government to lead their country at a critical time. In the coming months, we will work
together with Iraqi leaders as our partnership continues its transition to a primarily civilian focus, with the goal of
building a long-term, multidimensional relationship between our two nations - a relationship that will contribute to
stability in the Middle East and growing peace and prosperity in Iraq.
###
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

I am likely going to go to bed early and be up early.
Hope you had a chance to go through ppt.
cdm
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, March 21, 2010 8:34 AM
Re: H: fyi. sid
I will send you a memo this morning
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

###
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

For filing: My immediate take on the Oscars is that it was Hollywood's re-voting of the 2008 primaries, not giving it to the
"Avatar" but to the tough woman. Sid
 --- 

FY1
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Coming soon.
 --- 

Whenever you like. What works? I can have ops reach out and build.
 --- 

UUP policing meeting with McGuinness breaks
down after three minutes
Latest row comes on eve of critical vote in Stormont assembly on transfer of justice powers from London to Belfast
• Henry McDonald, Ireland correspondent
• quardian.co.uk, Monday 8 March 2010 17.36 GMT
• Article history
A meeting between the Ulster Unionists and Northern Ireland's deputy first minister aimed at securing the party's support
for the devolution of policing and justice broke down in acrimony this evening.
The encounter between Martin McGuinness and a UUP delegation lasted all of three minutes at Stormont.
The latest row comes on the eve of a critical vote in the Stormont assembly on transferring justice and policing powers
from London to Belfast. The UUP has indicated it will not support the last act of devolution because they believe the entire
power-sharing executive is dysfunctional.
Sir Reg Empey, the UUP leader, told the Guardian last month his party would not support the transfer of these powers
unless it obtained concessions on education — specifically the retention of academic selection to grammar schools at 11.
Following the aborted meeting today, the UUP released a statement condemning both McGuinness and Peter Robinson,
the first minister, who is leader of the rival Democratic Unionist party. The UUP claimed it had been ejected from the
deputy first minister's office.
A UUP spokesman said: "An ill-tempered deputy first minister attempted to aggressively lecture the Ulster Unionist party
on policing and justice. He ridiculously accused us of being an anti-agreement party. Our delegation robustly reminded the
deputy first minister that we were the party which brought power-sharing government to Stormont.
"Quite clearly dissent and disagreement are unacceptable to Sinn Fein — unfortunately for Mr McGuinness, a party voting
against a motion with which it disagrees is basic, normal democratic politics."
The spokesman added that McGuinness's "angry and aggressive attempt to lecture" the UUP was "wholly unacceptable".
"When challenged on his tone, the meeting broke down. The UUP will not take lectures on our commitment to devolution
from Martin McGuinness.
"If this is how Sinn Fein understands power-sharing, then it is small wonder that the [Northern Ireland] executive is
dysfunctional."
If the DUP and Sinn Fein press ahead with the vote it is highly likely that the leader of the centrist, non-sectarian Alliance
party, David Ford, will become the first justice minister for Northern Ireland.
The SDLP will back the transfer of policing and justice powers in the Assembly tomorrow. However the nationalist party is
angry that it is not being offered the justice ministry. Under the rules governing the hand-out of ministries in the power-
sharing government the SDLP are officially entitled to choose the next ministry.
The party opposes the appointment of Ford as justice minister but will still support the transfer of these powers as they
want to be seen to continue to back the power-sharing arrangement.
US Congress warns Cameron over danger of
failed Ulster police deal
Yes vote on Hillsborough agreement would see policing and criminal justice powers devolved to Belfast next month
• Nicholas Watt, chief political correspondent
• guardian.co.uk, Sunday 7 March 2010 22.12 GMT
• Article history
US secretary of state Hillary Clinton is said to be concerned at Cameron's apparent failure to exert pressure on his UUP
partners. Photograph: Karim Jaafar/AFP/Getty Images
David Cameron has been given a stark warning from Washington that dissident terrorists will be "emboldened" to intensify
their attacks in Northern Ireland and millions of dollars of US investment will be threatened if he fails to persuade the
Tories' Ulster Unionist partners to endorse the final stage of the peace process.
In a sign of deep unease in Washington at the Tories' electoral pact with the UUP, a bipartisan group of US Congress
members have demanded Cameron must "aggressively" encourage his partners to endorse the deal in a vote in the
Northern Ireland assembly on Tuesday.
"At this defining moment in the peace process, it is crucial that all the political parties speak with one voice about their
shared future," the members of Congress wrote in a private letter to Cameron.
Without a unanimous vote, they said, the province's elected officials would be sending the wrong message to the people
they represent, and to the world.
"Dissidents are trying to destabilise the political institutions and turn the clock back ... These dissidents will continue to be
emboldened if they sense there is no political unanimity on the way forward ... The challenge of bringing good jobs to
Northern Ireland will be made more difficult if potential investors do not believe there is political stability."
The letter by congressional leaders of the 41 million-strong Irish-American community has been passed to the Guardian
before the crucial vote on last month's Hillsborough agreement between Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionists.
A yes vote would see policing and criminal justice powers devolved to Belfast next month in what the British government
has dubbed the final piece in the jigsaw of the 1998 Good Friday agreement.
The congressmen and women, whose views reflect the private misgivings of the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton,
wrote to Cameron after learning that his electoral partners in Northern Ireland were voicing doubts about endorsing the
deal. Clinton is said to be alarmed that Cameron has either failed, or not bothered, to warn the UUP of the dangers of
obstructing the deal.
A Tory source said: "David Cameron has consistently made clear that we support the devolution of policing and criminal
justice powers ... We welcomed the agreement between the DUP and Sinn Fein. The final details are for the parties in the
executive, working as a four-party coalition, to decide. We hope that between now and Tuesday any outstanding issues
can be solved."
The Hillsborough agreement was brokered last month under a system endorsed by the UUP when it was the largest party
in Northern Ireland. This says that any change must have the consent of 50% of both the nationalist and Unionist
communities and 50% of the assembly.
Sir Reg Empey, the UUP leader who was one of the architects of the Good Friday agreement, will meet his party's
executive tomorrow night to decide how to vote.
The deal could still be passed tomorrow without the support of the UUP because the DUP's 36 assembly members
account for more than 50% of the unionist bloc. But there are fears in Washington that a no vote from the UUP, seen as a
moribund force until Cameron breathed new life into it, would destabilise many members of the DUP and undermine
support for the devolution of policing and criminal justice powers.
US eyes on Northern Ireland in countdown to
crucial peace vote
Hillary Clinton, the White House and Congressional leaders look for a yes vote in Belfast
By Nick Watt
Guardian
For a few hours tomorrow, the United States will turn its attention to Northern Ireland. Democratic and Republican leaders
will both be watching to see whether all mainstream political parties endorse the final stage in the implementation of the
Good Friday Agreement: the devolution of policing and criminal justice powers.
Sir Reg Empey, the leader of the Ulster Unionist party, is meeting his executive tonight to decide whether to vote yes.
Empey has severe doubts about the deal between Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionist party. This would see policing
and criminal justice powers devolved to Belfast next month — a key nationalist demand — in return for the long-standing
unionist demand for a review of the way in which contentious parades are run.
Intense pressure is being placed on Empey to fall into line. Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state who has taken a keen
interest in Northern Ireland since the peace process was launched in the early days of her husband's presidency, spent
15 minutes talking to Empey by phone, according to BBC Northern Ireland.
But transatlantic pressure has also been brought to bear on the other side of the Irish Sea. I reported this morning that a
group of bipartisan US Congressmen have written to David Cameron asking him to use his influence with the UUP, which
recently formed an electoral pact with the Tories, to vote yes.
The unease among the US Congress members is shared by Hillary Clinton. She is said to believe that Cameron would be
well advised to follow the example of John Major, who was respected as an impartial referee.
The concerns in the US will raise questions about claims made in private recently by William Hague. The shadow foreign
secretary is saying that, despite their political differences, he is forging a strong bond with Clinton.
But all sides need to be careful. The Tories, who support the deal between Sinn Fein and the DUP, believe that ministers
need to be careful about frightening the UUP with too much political pressure. The government was this morning
trumpeting a poll, commissioned by them, which showed overwhelming support among UUP voters for a yes vote. But, as
Slugger O'Toole notes, there is some debate about the methodology.
"It almost feels like the government want the UUP to vote no so they can draw one of Gordon Brown's beloved dividing
lines and say we are to blame for it all going wrong," one Tory tells me.
 --- 

FYI, see below. I will send the Guardian article in a moment.
Look forward to discussing.
 --- 

US Congress warns Cameron over danger of failed
Ulster police deal
Yes vote on Hillsborough agreement would see policing and criminal justice powers devolved to Belfast next
month
David Cameron has been given a stark warning from Washington that dissident terrorists will be "emboldened"
to intensify their attacks in Northern Ireland and millions of dollars of US investment will be threatened if he
fails to persuade the Tories' Ulster Unionist partners to endorse the final stage of the peace process.
In a sign of deep unease in Washington at the Tories' electoral pact with the UUP, a bipartisan group of US
Congress members have demanded Cameron must "aggressively" encourage his partners to endorse the deal in
a vote in the Northern Ireland assembly on Tuesday.
"At this defining moment in the peace process, it is crucial that all the political parties speak with one voice
about their shared future," the members of Congress wrote in a private letter to Cameron.
Without a unanimous vote, they said, the province's elected officials would be sending the wrong message to
the people they represent, and to the world.
"Dissidents are trying to destabilise the political institutions and turn the clock back ... These dissidents will
continue to be emboldened if they sense there is no political unanimity on the way forward ... The challenge of
bringing good jobs to Northern Ireland will be made more difficult if potential investors do not believe there is
political stability."
The letter by congressional leaders of the 41 million-strong Irish-American community has been passed to the
Guardian before the crucial vote on last month's Hillsborough agreement between Sinn Fein and the Democratic
Unionists.
A yes vote would see policing and criminal justice powers devolved to Belfast next month in what the British
government has dubbed the final piece in the jigsaw of the 1998 Good Friday agreement.
The congressmen and women, whose views reflect the private misgivings of the US secretary of state, Hillary
Clinton, wrote to Cameron after learning that his electoral partners in Northern Ireland were voicing doubts
about endorsing the deal. Clinton is said to be alarmed that Cameron has either failed, or not bothered, to warn
the UUP of the dangers of obstructing the deal.
A Tory source said: "David Cameron has consistently made clear that we support the devolution of policing and
criminal justice powers ... We welcomed the agreement between the DUP and Sinn Fein. The final details are
for the parties in the executive, working as a four-party coalition, to decide. We hope that between now and
Tuesday any outstanding issues can be solved."
The Hillsborough agreement was brokered last month under a system endorsed by the UUP when it was the
largest party in Northern Ireland. This says that any change must have the consent of 50% of both the nationalist
and Unionist communities and 50% of the assembly.
Sir Reg Empey, the UUP leader who was one of the architects of the Good Friday agreement, will meet his
party's executive tomorrow night to decide how to vote.
The deal could still be passed tomorrow without the support of the UUP because the DUP's 36 assembly
members account for more than 50% of the unionist bloc. But there are fears in Washington that a no vote from
the UUP, seen as a moribund force until Cameron breathed new life into it, would destabilise many members of
the DUP and undermine support for the devolution of policing and criminal justice powers.
 --- 

Jon should've printed new draft about 30 mins ago.
 --- 

Yes, I am asking for new date options.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

1.4(D)
B1
03/08/2020
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

George Bush to David Cameron: don't derail
Northern Ireland peace process
Exclusive: Former president urges Cameron to rein in Unionist partners
• Nicholas Watt
• quardian.co.uk, Monday 8 March 2010 21.20 GMT
• Article history
Former US president George Bush has called David Cameron over his concerns for the Northern Ireland peace process.
Photograph: Andrew Parsons/PA
The former US president George Bush has made a direct plea to David Cameron to support the Northern Ireland peace
process, amid widespread concern in the US about the Tories' new electoral pact with the Ulster Unionists.
In his most active intervention since leaving the White House, Bush took the rare step of calling the Conservative leader to
ask him to use his influence to press his unionist partners to endorse the final stages of the 15-year search for a
settlement.
Bush, who took a close interest in the peace process during his years in the White House, telephoned Cameron last
Friday to ask him to plead with the UUP leader, Sir Reg Empey, to endorse the deal in a vote tomorrow in the Northern
Ireland assembly.
Democrats and Republicans fear that the peace process could be undermined if the Ulster Unionist party, formerly
Northern Ireland's largest party, which governed the province until direct rule was imposed in 1972, votes against the
devolution of policing and criminal justice powers to Belfast.
While the UUP does not have enough votes to scupper the deal, the White House fears a no vote from the UUP could
undermine support for the settlement within the Democratic Unionist party and among the wider unionist community.
Cameron has faced intense pressure in recent months over his decision to form an electoral pact with the UUP, which
could provide him with crucial support if the general election leads to a hung parliament. The pact has prompted fears in
Washington that Cameron may abandon the even-handed approach to Northern Ireland adopted by John Major in the
early years of the peace process.
The Guardian understands that the White House is so concerned that the US economic envoy to Northern Ireland, Declan
Kelly, persuaded Bush to intervene. The former president telephoned Cameron to ask him to use his influence to
persuade Empey to vote for the deal.
"There was a feeling that a conservative to conservative conversation was the right way to go about this," said one source
familiar with the transatlantic negotiations. "This conversation was borne out of the concern that Empey is holding out."
Another source familiar with the contact said: "This is the most active thing George W Bush has done in his post-
presidency period. He has been incredibly restrained and diplomatic since leaving the White House. He has maintained
radio silence."
One source familiar with thinking on Northern Ireland on both sides of the Atlantic added: "The fact that George W Bush
has decided to intervene is really significant. He was interested in the peace process as president and appointed an
envoy. It is a general sign of how concerned people are in the US about what David Cameron is up to."
A Tory source said: "George Bush did have a conversation with David Cameron. It was a positive conversation. David
underlined his commitment to the agreement and said we are doing all we can to support it. But he said that we cannot
force Sir Reg to vote for it. George Bush thanked David and said, 'I can see you are engaged."
The disclosure of Bush's intervention came as Empey met the executive of his party tonight to decide whether to endorse
the deal brokered last month at Hillsborough Castle between Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionists that would see
policing and criminal justice powers devolved to Belfast next month.
B6
The UUP leader, who is minister for employment and learning in the four-party power sharing executive, believes it is
foolish to devolve the final set of powers while the coalition is struggling to function. In a sign of Empey's unease about
endorsing the deal, a meeting between the UUP and the Sinn Fein deputy first minster, Martin McGuinness, broke up
after just three minutes tonight.
The White House and political leaders across the spectrum in the US have been watching developments with care. Hillary
Clinton, the US secretary of state, today pleaded with Empey in a 15-minute telephone call to support the deal.
A group of US Congress members wrote to Cameron last month to issue a stark warning that dissident terrorists will be
"emboldened" to intensify their attacks if he fails to persuade the Tories' partners to endorse the final stage of the peace
process.
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <Sullivanii@state.gov>
Tuesday, March 9, 2010 7:40 AM
H
Re: Libya
B5
I was thinking the same thing after Jeff's latest missive last night.
 --- 

Roger
 --- 

yes, within about 15 min. Have been writing and also talking it out with Joe Wilson. Coming very soon.
 --- 


 --- 

rs kt.sk-T.t.o 4 v3:31A,.strif
me:me,
X -
SOPING fr
IAa
piNiorpi § • qiNel tAIS RFS; 1
111-0,INVitIViat"). 4:SW
1
1
-",
' ,;¦ ,1410,45.
.
W „44-4,4
1
E10: „9
: ,
4.
4,r
4fr
. :
w‘
if!'4f i,
-
Time to break the fog of Middle East politics
By David Ignatius
Sunday, March 21, 2010; A19
Diplomats love ambiguity. It allows them to fuzz up the hard parts of a negotiation -- the "final status" issues, as they're
often called -- and save them for later, when the parties are more amenable to pressure.
This devotion to "constructive ambiguity" has been a hallmark of U.S. peacemaking on the Palestinian-Israeli issue for 40
years. Rather than state the unpalatable concessions that most analysts recognize will be required for any viable
settlement -- that Israelis must share sovereignty in Jerusalem and that Palestinians must give up the "right of return" to
Israel -- successive U.S. administrations have tried to defer these unmentionables until later.
But the fog machine blew apart this month, when the isr3e1Interipr i‘,1!inista_rndLinced du
..ripq. visit ily__Vde President
Biden that Israel would build 1,600 more housipg priits in ,lerusal.
erp. The Obama administration was upset, to put it
mildly: Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called the housing announcement a "deeply negative signal" about U.S.-Israeli
relations and "an insult."
In the ensuing hubbub over the "crisis" in U.S.-Israeli relations, there have been frantic attempts to pretend it was all a
misunderstanding and pull the cloak of ambiguity back over the peace process. But that's a mistake.
The East Jerusalem move wasn't an accident but an emphatic public statement of the Israeli right's rejection of
concessions on Jerusalem. Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu had been trying to play along with U.S. requests to fuzz
the issue by avoiding provocative actions on Jerusalem. But the right-wing Shas party, which controls the Interior Ministry,
basically called his bluff.
"Freezing building in East Jerusalem is one of those things we cannot do," said Dore Gold, a right-wing former Israeli
ambassador to the United Nations. And Avigdor Lieberman, the Israeli foreign minister and a settler himself, responded:
"Can you imagine if they told Jews in New York they could not build or buy in Queens?"
So what should the administration do, now that the Israeli right has put Jerusalem squarely on the table despite the best
efforts of the ambiguity-addicted diplomats?
The administration's best strategy is to do what it considered a year ago, which is to state clearly the basic principles that
must frame these negotiations. Those guidelines have been articulated well by Zbigniew Brzezinski, the former national
security adviser: real sharing of Jerusalem; no right of return for the Palestinians; a return to the 1967 borders, with mutual
adjustments to allow for big Israeli settlement blocks; and a demilitarized Palestinian state. Every negotiation for the past
four decades has converged toward those parameters.
The Obama administration debated whether to issue such a statement of principles a year ago, when it began its
peacemaking effort. Launching negotiations with this "big bang" made sense to some officials, including Gen. Jim Jones,
the national security adviser, But George Mitchell, the Middle East envoy, argued that based on his experience in the
Northern Ireland peace talks, it was better to let the parties haggle before the United States stepped in with bridging
proposals.
Rather than stating U.S. negotiating principles at the outset, the Obama team decided instead to push Netanyahu on
settlements. The administration picked this fight in the flush of President Obama's first months in office, confident that he
was so strong and Netanyahu so weak that if it came to a showdown, Netanyahu would cave. The Israeli leader coolly
bided his time, dickering about procedural issues while Obama got weaker politically by the month. Netanyahu finally
agreed in November to a temporary moratorium on new settlements -- but it excluded Jerusalem. The administration
should have seen what was coming.
In retrospect, it seems clear that the step-by-step approach was a mistake: Constructive ambiguity, in this case, proved
destructive. It allowed the Israeli right wing to perpetuate the idea that it could have it all -- obtain a peace deal without
making concessions on Jerusalem. And it allowed Netanyahu to continue his straddle.
Jerusalem is the hardest issue of all in the Israeli-Palestinian negotiation, and for that reason, would-be peacemakers
have wanted to save it for last. But this month's crisis makes that strategic waffling impossible. Thanks to the Israeli right,
the Jerusalem issue is joined.
What's needed now is for Obama to announce that when negotiations begin, the United States will state its views about
Jerusalem and other key issues -- sketching the outlines of the deal that most Israelis and Palestinians want. If Netanyahu
refuses to play, then we have a real crisis in U.S.-Israeli relations.
davidignatius_@washpost.corn
Post a Comment
View all comments that have been posted about this article.
Comments that include profanity or personal attacks or other inappropriate comments or material will be removed from the
site. Additionally, entries that are unsigned or contain "signatures" by someone other than the actual author will be
removed. Finally, we will take steps to block users who violate any of our posting standards, terms of use or privacy
policies or any other policies governing this site. Please review the NI1 Riles governing commentaries and discussions.
You are fully responsible for the content that you post.
© 2010 The Washington Post Company
 --- 

I am on travel with the Secretary and have very irregular email access. If you need to reach me urgently, please call the
State Department Operations Center. Otherwise, Ill get back to you the week of March 22.
Thanks,
Tomicah
 --- 

Shaun just called. Vote just happened. UUP unanimously voted against. DUP held firm. Agreement passed. You might
call Shaun and Robinson and McGuinness to congratulate. More later. Sid Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

Yes -- I'm finalizing the visuals now and should have it for you in the next half hour.
 --- 

in subsequent stories. Sid
&It;SCRIPT language='JavaScript1.1' SRC="http://ad-
emea.doubleclick.net/adj/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495;abr=!ie;sz=468x60;click=http://ads.guardian.co.uk/ev
ent. ng/Type=click&amp; Flig htl D=143552&am p;Adl D=165203&amp;TargetID=42700&amp;Values=239&amp; Redirect=;or
d=lnxvsy,bfzndNmgnupsj?"&gtAlt;/SCRIPT&gt; &It; NOSCRI PT&gt; &It;A
HREF="http://ads.guardian.co.uk/event.ng/Type=click&amp;Flight1D=143552&amp;AdID=165203&amp;TargetID=42700&
am p;Values=239&amp; Red irect=http://ad-
emea.dou blecl ick. net/jump/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495;abr=lie4;abr=!ie5;sz=468x60;ord=lnxvsy, bfzndNmg
nupsj?"&gt; &It;IMG SRC="http://ad-
emea.doubleclick.net/ad/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495;abr=lie4;abr=!ie5;sz=468x60;ord=lnxvsy, bfzndNmgnu
psj" BORDER=0 WIDTH=468 HEIGHT=60&gt&IVA&gt; &It;/NOSCRIPT&gt;
e
FaiFL§uardian.co.uk V] [Search]
UUP rejects Tory plea and votes against
devolution of policing powers
New justice ministry is created without backing of Conservative allies in Stormont
• Comments (...)
• Henry McDonald and Andrew Sparrow
• quardian.co.uk, Tuesday 9 March 2010 17.37 GMT
•
Ulster Unionist leader Sir Reg Empey walks past a TV monitor displaying the Northern Ireland chamber meeting at
Stormont in Belfast today. Photograph: Peter Muhly/AFP/Getty Images
The final part of the Northern Ireland devolution deal was put in place today, giving the province its first justice minister
since the Troubles erupted four decades ago.
Nationalists and unionists in the Stormont parliament voted together to create the new justice ministry, completing the last
act of the Good Friday agreement.
But there was discord inside the Stormont parliament after the Conservatives' allies in Northern Ireland, the Ulster
Unionists, and their 18-strong assembly team, voted against the move.
Despite an 11th hour intervention by David Cameron imploring the UUP to vote yes, the party refused to back the historic
measure.
The party's stance puts Cameron in a difficult position: he is in favour of the devolution of justice to Belfast, but his
electoral pact with the UUP risks exposing him to criticism that a Conservative government could not claim to be an
"honest broker" when there are disagreements between the parties at Stormont.
Today's vote came just before 5pm, when 88 assembly members from Sinn Fein and the DUP joined the SDLP and
smaller parties to back the transfer of policing and judicial powers to Belfast.
But the UUP resisted pressure — from, among others, former US president George Bush — to support the measure.
Speaking on the assembly floor, Sir Reg Empey, the UUP leader, said his party had voted no "as a democratic political
to a friend
hare
end
IL
i
r•
ontact us
er I smaller
party pledged to making power-sharing work in an inclusive manner for all the people of Northern Ireland, and we exercise
our rights refusing to bow to the blackmail and bullying to which we have been subjected in recent weeks."
The deputy first minister, Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness, earlier denounced the UUP stance, claiming it was intended to
embarrass the DUP.
"The UUP declared last night that they will not support this resolution," McGuinness told the assembly.
"That saddens and disappoints me. They are opposed in my view to the transfer for cynical party political reasons."
In a statement after the vote, Gordon Brown praised the parties which backed the deal. "Today the politics of progress
have finally replaced the politics of division in Northern Ireland," the prime minister said. "The completion of devolution,
supported by all sections of the community in Northern Ireland, is the final end to decades of strife. It sends the most
powerful message to those who would return to violence: that democracy and tolerance will prevail.
"The courage and leadership of the parties who voted to complete devolution at Stormont will be noted around the world."
The Conservatives welcomed the vote, without mentioning the UUP's rejection of the move. A Tory spokesman said: "We
welcome the fact that devolution of policing and justice is going to happen. We wanted all four parties to be involved and
for it to be decided by local politicians."
But the Liberal Democrats called on Cameron to "clarify the position of his Tory-UUP alliance on the devolution of policing
and justice powers".
Alistair Carmichael, their spokesman on Northern Ireland, said: "With the UUP saying one thing, and the Tories saying the
complete opposite, voters will struggle to understand what exactly joint Tory-UUP candidates stand for. What we're seeing
is the Tories in complete disarray. When it takes George Bush to step in as the voice of reason, it's clear that David
Cameron has dug himself a very big hole."
Carmichael added: "This raises serious questions about David Cameron's judgment. If he can't manage to steer a straight
course in opposition, how on earth would he cope as prime minister?"
Earlier there was acrimony in the Great Hall at Stormont when a victims' campaigner attempted to serve a civil writ against
McGuinness.
Willie Frazer of the group Families Acting for Innocent Relatives threw the legal document in McGuinness's direction after
the deputy first minister refused to take it off him. Frazer is taking a civil action in Belfast high court against the Sinn Fein
MP because he alleges McGuinness directed the IRA's campaign during the Troubles. The south Armagh unionist's father
was shot dead by the IRA.
The FAIR spokesman said he had chosen yesterday because the DUP "had betrayed me and other victims" by agreeing
to devolve policing and justice powers. Frazer predicted that Sinn Fein would exercise a major influence over the police
and judiciary even though the centrist, non-sectarian Alliance party leader, David Ford, will be the first justice minister.
Frazer said: "I am very disappointed in the DUP because for years they said the things victims wanted to hear and now
they have done a complete somersault. All along they told me that Sinn Fein would never get their hands on policing and
justice but they have a say. Mr Ford is answerable to the executive and that means the deputy first minister, Martin
McGuinness. That is why the only action left to me is a civil action. I feel very let down by a number of DUP people."
The DUP will suffer at the polls for this U-turn, Frazer predicted.
rintable version
Email
Close
Recipient's email address
Your first name
Your surname
Add a note (optional)
[Send]
Your IP address will be logged
Share
Close
• Digq
• reddit
• Google Bookmarks
• Twitter
• delicious
• StumbleUpon
• Newsvine
• livejournal
• Facebook
• Mixx it!
Contact us
Close
• Contact the Politics editor
politics.editorA
guardianunlimited.co.uk
• Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelpguardian.co.uk
• Letters for publication should be sent to: lettersguardian.co.uk
• If you need help using the site: userhelpguardian.co.uk
• Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard:
+44 (0)20 3353 2000
o Advertising guide
o License/buy our content
Politics
• Northern Irish politics •
• Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) •
• Conservatives
UK news
• Northern Ireland •
• Police
More news
• More on this story
• We will not be bullied, says UUP leader
• Henry McDonald: Americans hold the key
• UUP-Conservative alliance: a risky strategy
• Nicholas Watt: Cameron tempts Bush out of retirement
• Editorial: The Tories and the peace process
Related
9 Mar 2010
We will not be bullied, says UUP leader Sir Reg Empey
8 Mar 2010
rintable version
Ulster Unionist party policing meeting with Martin McGuinness breaks down after three minutes
13 May 2009
Ulster Unionist MP will not stand as Tory candidate
6 Apr 2009
Northern Ireland first minister claims Tories and UUP colluding over expenses stories
Email
Close
Recipient's email address
Your first name
Your surname
Add a note (optional)
[Send]
Your IP address will be logged
Share
Close
• Digq
• redd it
• Gooqle Bookmarks
• Twitter
• delicious
• StumbleUpon
• Newsvine
• livejournal
• Facebook
• Mixx it!
Contact us
Close
• Contact the Politics editor
politics.editora
quardianunlimited.co.uk
• Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelpaguardian.co.uk
• Letters for publication should be sent to: lettersaguardian.co.uk
• If you need help using the site: userhelp(a,guardian.co.uk
• Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard:
+44 (0)20 3353 2000
•
o Advertising guide
o License/buy our content
About this article
Close
Northern Ireland: UUP rejects Tory plea and
votes against devolution of policing powers
This article was published on quardian.co.uk at 17.37 GMT on Tuesday 9 March 2010. It was last modified at 17.49 GMT
on Tuesday 9 March 2010.
&It;SCRIPT language='JavaScript1.1 SRC="http://ad-
emea.doubleclick.net/adj/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495.4;abr=lie;sz=120x600;click=http://ads.guardian.co.uk
/event. ng/Type=click&amp; Flight1D=143551&amp;AdID=165202&amp;TargetID=42701&amp;Values=239&amp;Redirect=
;ord=zobmbz,bfzndNngnupsw?"&gtAlt;/SCRIPT&gt; &It; NOSCRI PT&gt; &It;A
HREF="http://ads.guardian.co.uk/event.ng/Type=click&amp;Flight1D=143551&amp;AdlD=165202&amp;TargetID=42701&
amp;Values=239&amp;Redirect=http://ad-
emea.doubleclick.net/jump/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495.4;abr=lie4;abr=lie5;sz=120x600;ord=zobmbz,bfznd
Nngnupsw?"&gt; &It;IMG SRC="http://ad-
emea.doubleclick.net/ad/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495.4;abr=lie4;abr=lie5;sz=120x600;ord=zobmbz,bfzndN
ngnupsw" BORDER=0 WIDTH=120 HEIGHT=600&gt&IVA&gt; &It/NOSCRIPT&gt;
GUERR (52) 2010-03-09 18:12:27,514
Latest from politics
• Most viewed
• Latest
• Most commented
GUERR (52) 2010-03-09 18:12:21,341
Last 24 hours
1. 1. George Bush to David Cameron: don't derail Northern Ireland peace process (165 comments)
2. 2. Jon Venables case: time for a political truce I Michael White (151)
3. 3. Eric Pickles distances Tory party from rightwinq training organisation (132)
4. 4. Alan Johnson on Tory crime policy — live (71)
5. 5. We will not be bullied, says UUP leader Sir Reg Empey (67)
Section classified
Guardian holiday offers
• Our choice
• Most popular
zi 0
Bruges by Eurostar - 3 nights from £249
•
0 0
Uzbekistan - 11 nights from £1395
1. Brussels Jazz Marathon
2. Classical Spain
3. William Morris: A Great Victorian
4. Discover the Nile
5. Venice, Florence & Rome - A Tale of Three Cities
Javascript must be turned on in order to see the most popular holiday offers
Find hand-picked holidays to hundreds of destinations
Enter place name [Search]
• Browse all Guardian holiday offers
• Sign up to Guardian holiday offers email
Find your MP
Enter name of the MP[ ] [Go]
Enter postcode or placename[ ] [Go]
Or browse the map I About this search
Latest news on guardian.co.uk
Last updated less than one minute ago
• News
First woman to die in Afghanistan 'badly trained'
• Sport
England raise security after bugging
Free P&P at the Guardian bookshop
.REo Arsenic Century
o £16.99 with free UK delivery
o Music Instinct
o £20.00 with free UK delivery
• Browse more politics books
• Sponsored features
•
•
•
• UK
• USA
USA
Search all jobs [Go]
Browse all jobs
{for result in results} <II> <h4> <a href="${resulturl}'>${result.jobtitle}</a> </h4> <p> <span class="description">${
result.snippet }<span> <span class="location">${ result.state }<span> </p> </li> {/for}
• Inscription House Health Center, Phy America Government Services, Inc. (AZPA)
Facility: Phy America Government Services, Inc... Primary Care PhyAmerica Government Services, Inc.
contracts with state and government agencies to provide... AZ
• VA Medical Center, Phy America Government Services, Inc.
Job #243167 Company / Facility: Phy America Government Services, Inc. VA Medical Center Location... shift.
PhyAmerica Government Services, Inc. is an... GA
• Human Terrain Systems Team Leader - PPL *
years military or government experience at 0-5 or above (0-4 USMC) or IA - 4 Level or equivalent OR - 3+ years
civilian or government management experience... KS
jobs by
Ads by Gooqle
• Need Health Insurance?
Compare Affordable Health Insurance Online - Rates from $30 / Month!
Affordable-Health-Insurance.orq
• Probate Lawyers.
Skilled lawyers providing personal attention in Probate matters.
www.LSSLawyers.com/
• Introducing Kates Haddock
Try Our New Special Dish, Kate's Haddock! Locate A Restaurant Now
www.BonefishGrill.com
Related information
Politics
• Northern Irish politics •
• Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) •
• Conservatives
UK news
• Northern Ireland •
• Police
atish and Irish PMs endorse Northern Ireland power-sharing deal
5 Feb 2010:
Gordon Brown and Brian Cowen endorse a deal to give Northern Ireland its first justice minister in one of the boldest
steps since the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement
More video
27 Feb 2009
Tories promise to make Northern Ireland special tax zone as they link up with UUP
7 Dec 2008
'I want Ulster Unionists in cabinet', says David Cameron
5 Dec 2008
lain Dale: An enlightened merger of Ulster Unionists and Conservatives
13 Jun 2002
UUP may merge with Tories
51
eace.protesters gather across Northern Ireland
11 Mar 2009:
Thousands gather across Northern Ireland to hold silent vigils in protest against the murders of two soldiers and a
policeman by dissident republicans
More galleries
• License/buy our content I
• Privacy policy I
• Terms & conditions I
• Advertising guide I
• Accessibility I
• A-Z index I
• Inside guardian.co.uk blog I
• About guardian.co.uk
• Join our dating site today
• guardian.co.uk © Guardian News and Media Limited 2010
Go to: [guardian.co.uk V] [Go]
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Tuesday, March 9, 2010 10:45 PM
H: FYI, a little collaboration in the spirit of postpartisanship. Sid
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/joe-wilson/emcourage-and-consequence_b_492602.html?view=print
March 9, 2010
Joseph C. Wilson
Courage and Consequence: Less Memoir Than
Hoax
Karl Rove's book Courage and Consequence is less memoir than hoax. The chapters that relate to the CIA leak scandal
are yet another attempt to deflect attention from his central role in the betrayal of Valerie Plame Wilson's identity as a
covert CIA officer.
His distortions and fabrications are consistent with his approach throughout this sordid and criminal affair. Wasting his
opportunity to tell the truth, he offers absolutely nothing new, and his selective use of facts and quotes are a transparent
effort to continue his long campaign to confuse people, unfortunately consistent with his past behavior.
His book is a pathetically weak defense of the disastrous policies pursued by the Bush administration, involving our
country in a war of choice based on false intelligence and badly tarnishing the good name of the United States of America.
Nothing in Karl Rove's book refutes those facts. His book, however, is illuminating in further exposing his political
methods, especially his reliance on personal insults, not simply towards Valerie and myself, but also towards all those
who opposed his unprincipled behavior.
If any additional proof to the irrefutable historical record were needed, Rove's book demonstrates once again the actions
of a vindictive, angry and petty man. Karl Rove betrayed his nation; now he has betrayed history.
Most Popular on HuffingtonPost
ic8B%2FZr%2BTve/o2FZmOUDCPhOfsL3fraN DZ7C1mceztZ%2FwKnab1e6N LC8C%2 Fc3vN RqWkrP1gCRQ179Hsm BC
FB36MIHQ`
)/03D%3D
NkxiHotNvaMBvS1Wd8FxHW6t54evrcfDEhUpq1kgmlCu0GbdUFMOVy6zrxRkzTtEQvX8tNyCK6VxiLL0SxJQqA°/03D%3D
1 of 2
Palin
—Crossed Border For Canadian Health Care
11,161 Comments
I
OscErs Breast Dressed: Who Wore Cleavage Best? (PHOTOS)
385 Comments
-1
Obaffia LIVE: Watch Video, Twitter Commentary
5,038 Comments
Alec Baldwin Thoughts on Hosting the 2010 Academy Awards
565 Comments
Rev.-
James Martin, S.J. Glenn Beck to Jesus: Drop...
1 281 Comments
lET
Katy-Hall 'Green Zone': The 'Bourne Team Takes On...
220 Comments
ftIJ
Shoff Film Producer Elinor Burkett Hijacks Speech In Oscar...
1 095 Comments
Oscirs 2010 WORST-DRESSED: See Who Bombed The Red Carpet...
245 Comments
The7 Lamest Moments From This Year's Oscars
534 Comments
Don't Miss HuffPost Bloggers
1 of 5
Ailic Baldwin
Thoughts on Hosting the 2010 Academy Awards
adonna
Sharing an Inspiring Story on International Women's Day
Hot Trends
army col. kim jong-ryul harry markopolos jesse ventura karen salmansohn karl rove
Get Breaking News Alerts
HuffPost Social News connects you with friends and the news
-
Follow Huffington Post
et Email Alerts »
HUFFPOST'S BIG NEWS PAGES
0
Bank
-Of America Overdraft Fees Dropped: Bank Will End Fees By Summer 2010
Financial Crisis
Bob Barker Loves PETA, Donates $2.5 Million For New Offices
PETA
lET
All The Most Ridiculous Parts Of The Eric Massa/Glenn Beck Interview In Under One Minute (VIDEO)
Glenn Beck
Mahmoud al-Mabhouh Assassination: The New York City Connection
Dubai
EL
Gibbs Fires Back At Chief Justice Roberts Over Obama Criticism
Su reme Court
Obarfia Foreclosure-Prevention Plan Lagging, New Data Shows (EXCLUSIVE)
Timoth Geithner
Jihad Jane, Colleen LaRose, Recruited Terrorists And Plotted Murder, Prosecutors Say
Ireland
IT
Toyola Stuck Accelerator Tips: What To Do If Your Car Suddenly Accelerates
Cars
Jessre Spano's Caffeine Intake (GRAPH)
Funny Pictures
more big news pages))
• Home
• Politics
• Media
• Entertainment
• Sports
• Comedy
• Business
• Living
• Style
• Green
• Technology
• World
• Books/NYR
• Impact
• N.Y.
• L.A.
• Chicago
• Denver
• Video
• Blogger Index
• Advertise I
•
• Make HuffPost your Home Page I
• RI
• Jobs I
• FAQ: Comments & Moderation I
• FAQ: Huffpost Accounts I
• Contact Us
• Copyright @ 2010 HuffingtonPost.com, Inc. I
• Archive I
• User Agreement I
• Privacy I
• Comment Policy I
• About Us I
• Powered by Movable Type
HuffPost Lightbox .
 --- 

841t;SCRIPT language='JavaScript1.1' SRC="http://ad-
emea.doubleclick.net/adj/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495;abr=!ie;sz=468x60;click=http://ads.guardian.co.uldev
ent.ngiType=click&amp;Flight1D=143552&amp;AdlD=165203&amp;TargetlD=42700&amp;Values=3263&amp;Redirect=;
ord=bNzdlpy,bfzocfybnvaqg?"&gtAlt;/SCRIPT&gt; &It; NOSCRIPT&gt; 8,1t;A
HREF="http://ads.guardian.co.uldevent.ng/Type=click&amp; Flight1D=143552&amp;Adl D=165203&amp;TargetID=42700&
amp;Values=3263&amp; Red irect=http://ad-
emea.doubleclick. netiump/N6010.133705.0666409185621/84336495; abr=!ie4;abr=!ie5; sz=468x60;ord=bNzdl py, bfzocfyb
nvaqg?"&gt; &It;IMG SRC="http://ad-
emea.doubleclick.net/ad/N6010.133705.0666409185621/B4336495;abr=!ie4;abr=!ie5;sz=468x60;ord=bNzdlpy,bfzocfybny
aqg" BORDER=0 WIDTH=468 HEIGHT=60&gtAlt;/A&gt; 8,1t;/NOSCRIPT&gt;
iãiiTuardian.co.uk V] [Search]
Stormont votes to take over Northern Ireland
policing powers
•Power-sharing finalised as assembly agrees to first justice minister since Troubles
•Ulster Unionists oppose measure but Hillary Clinton welcomes assembly's yes vote
A 15-year search for a political settlement in Northern Ireland cleared its final hurdle today when unionists and nationalists
voted to transfer policing and criminal justice powers to Belfast, creating the province's first justice minister since the
Troubles erupted four decades ago.
Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionist party (DUP), who were barely on speaking terms a few years ago, joined forces
with the nationalist SDLP in the Northern Ireland assembly to endorse a deal on policing, hammered out last month.
The justice minister will be appointed on 12 April and is likely to be David Ford, the leader of the centrist Alliance party.
The breakthrough was marred by a row when the Ulster Unionist party (UUP), which governed Northern Ireland for five
decades until the imposition of direct rule in 1972, voted against the deal.
Sir Reg Empey, the UUP leader, who recently formed an electoral pact with the Conservatives, said he had voted no
because his party did not believe that the four-party power-sharing executive was functioning properly. Empey, the
minister for employment and learning, said: "We exercise our rights, refusing to bow to the blackmail and bullying to which
we have been subjected in recent weeks."
The UUP hit out after facing intense pressure from London and the US to fall in behind David Cameron, who has backed
devolution of the criminal justice system. Gordon Brown phoned Empey shortly before today's vote, while former US
president George Bush pleaded with Cameron last week to persuade the UUP to support the deal.
Empey's unionist rivals, the DUP, who have overtaken the UUP in recent years, focused on what could happen after the
vote. The DUP leader, Peter Robinson, who managed to persuade all but one of his 36 assembly members to back the
devolution deal, said: "The move is about completing and maintaining devolution, it is about whether we move forward
together as a society."
The vote secures an extra £800m for policing and justice that Brown promised the assembly if they backed the transfer. It
also adds an extra 1,200 police officers. The prime minister praised the main parties for reaching the deal on an issue that
almost broke the power-sharing government.
He said: "Today the politics of progress have finally replaced the politics of division in Northern Ireland. The completion of
devolution, supported by all sections of the community in Northern Ireland, is the final end to decades of strife. It sends
the most powerful message to those who would return to violence: that democracy and tolerance will prevail. The courage
and leadership of the parties who voted to complete devolution at Stormont will be noted around the world."
The vote was also praised tonight by Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state. She
said: "I commend the Northern Ireland Assembly for its affirmation of the
Hillsborough Agreement and its endorsement of the devolution of policing and
justice, an important step in ensuring a peaceful and prosperous future for all of the
people of Northern Ireland for generations to come."
Irish president Mary McAleese also hailed the move. "Today's vote in the Northern Ireland assembly represents an
eloquent statement of confidence in the political institutions established under the Good Friday Agreement," she said.
Matt Baggott, chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, welcomed the vote as a step forward. "Devolution
will strengthen our service. It will help to ensure communities receive the policing service that not only they deserve, but
that we are committed to delivering.
"The financial package is also welcomed ... it will help us deal with those who are living in the darkness of the past and
who have tried to disrupt this process and the lives of our community."
But there was discord inside Stormont after the UUP and their 17-strong assembly team voted against the move.
Martin McGuinness, Sinn Fein's deputy first minister, denounced the UUP stance, claiming they were doing it to
embarrass the DUP. "The UUP declared last night [Monday] that they will not support this resolution," McGuinness told
the assembly. "That saddens and disappoints me. They are opposed in my view to the transfer for cynical party political
reasons." He stressed that no single party could control the justice department.
The UUP no-vote will put pressure on the Tories, who will campaign with their allies in the general election, having taken
opposing sides on the biggest vote since the DUP and Sinn Fein started sharing power in 2007.
Cameron insisted that the Tories had played a constructive role, saying he would maintain his alliance with the UUP. "We
want to move Northern Ireland politics forward — to focus on the issues that affect people in their everyday lives — rather
than remaining stuck in the past. That is why we remain totally committed to bringing national, mainstream UK politics to
Northern Ireland and to ending its semi-detached political status."
Cameron's remarks were designed, in part, to reassure the White House, which fears a UUP no-vote could harden
unionist opinion against power-sharing.
Hardline Unionists turned on the DUP tonight. Jim Allister, the former DUP MEP, who now leads the breakaway
Traditional Unionist Voice, claimed his former party had "rolled over in triple somersaults for Sinn Fein". He also
suggested the new justice minister would be a "pointless puppet keeping the seat warm for Sinn Fein". Prior to the vote
the widow of the first Police Service of Northern Ireland officer to be murdered by dissident republicans urged all parties to
back the devolution of policing and justice powers. Kate Carroll, whose husband, Stephen, was killed by a Continuity IRA
sniper, said in an appeal to the UUP: "It is heartbreaking that I have to get on this morning to please ask the politicians to
get on with their job."
 --- 

FYI — I'm sure you saw.
cdm
 --- 

Roger.
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 

For this year:
Chile is going to Alex Wolfe
Columbia to Mike McKinley
Venezuela to Larry Palmer.
Next year, few big posts are up. Indeed the only posts are:
Cuba, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, panama, paraguay
 --- 

65 for and 356 against
(60 Dems and 5 Republicans voting for)
This is an increase of 9 votes since the last votes cast against the war (2009 war supp funding).
 --- 


 --- 

The way you did the ending was pitch perfect. The headlines may about the Iran language, but you laid a powerful
predicate for moving forward. AM
 --- 

request for Haiti, Lugar says
FYI
 --- 


 --- 

Fyi. This resolves - in some respects - the UN mandate issue Lavrov raised.
 --- 

Whew once again u are in the thick of thing--- but didn't it make your heart feel good about the passage of. Health.
Care----and. The. Nuns pushed it over the finish line---as usual in the fcore front of. Social. Justice and a daring
willingness. To break with the. Boys------ if you need a tonic. Go to the. Nuns exhibit @ the. Smithsonian--- Ripley.
Center. Gives the 250 year history of. Nuns in. Usa. And their role in shaping. Our country and producing 1000s of
women leaders with names like. Pelosi. Mikulski. Ferrar0. Sebilius. takes less than a hour. You are doing great
Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
 --- 

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA@state.gov>
Thursday, March 11, 2010 10:12 AM
Sullivan, Jacob J
AMS
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
 --- 

Great! Will do.
 --- 


 --- 

More.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

FYI. Israelis spinning up a storm, starting with plane briefing on the way over.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 9:04 AM
H: New polls on US Jewish opinion, etc. Sid
hrc memo new polls 032310.docx
March 23, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

sbwhoeop
Tuesday, March 23, 2010 9:36 AM
PVerveer
fyi, drug violence, cuidad juarez and women. Sid
FYI, a lot of the violence in Cuidad Juarez has historically been targeted against women. In 2002, Max wrote this report
from Juarez, the first report by an American from the scene, winning the Annenberg Online Journalism Award, the
equivalent of the Pulitzer Prize.
• &It:script language="JavaScript" type="text/javascript"&gt; document.write('&Ita
href="http://clk.atdmt.com/CNT/go/197071989/directwi.728;hi.90/01/" target=" blank"&gtAltimg
src="http://view.atdmt.com/CNT/view/197071989/direct;wi.728;hi.90/01/"/&gt;&it
;/a&gt;'); &It:/script&gt;&lt;noscript&gt;&Ita
href="http://clk.atdmt.com/CNT/go/197071989/direct;wi.728;hi.90/01/" target=" blank"&gtAltimg border="0"
src="http://view.atdmt.com/CNTIview/197071989/direct;wi.728;hi.90/01/" /&gt;El
tia&gt;&lt:/noscript&gt;
http://www.salon.com/news/feature/2002/12/04/juarez/print.html
Day of the dead
More than 325 women have been murdered in the free-trade boomtown of Ciudad Juarez in the past decade. Faced with
government incompetence and corruption, people are rebelling.
By Max Blumenthal
Dec 4, 2002 I The body of another murdered woman was found late last month in the Mexican industrial hub of Ciudad
Juarez, dumped behind some shrubs in the squalor of the Anapra neighborhood, a ramshackle hodgepodge of corrugated
tin and cardboard shacks on the sludge-washed banks of the Rio Grande. Her hands had been tied, and the evidence
suggested she had been raped. The body was so badly decomposed that investigators calculated that she'd been dead
for seven months.
However horrific the details, they were numbing in their familiarity. The body of a woman who had died in similar
circumstances was found in the same dusty lot a couple of months earlier. The bodies of eight women were found in a lot
not far away a little more than a year ago. So many women have been murdered here in the past 10 years that there is no
reliable count. Most experts place it close to 325, an average of 32 a year, nearly three every month. At least 90 of the
deaths are believed to be the work of one or more serial killers. Hundreds more women have simply vanished.
Like so many of the others, the woman whose body was found in late October had probably come to Juarez from the
poverty of southern Mexico to work for about $10 a day in one of the many foreign-owned assembly plants known as
maquiladoras that sprouted up in Juarez after the North American Free Trade Agreement was signed in 1994. And like
them, too, her body was unclaimed in death and buried alone and anonymous.
Such death has become a way of life here. So, too, with the fear and paranoia that rise in such a climate. Nobody knows
who is doing the killings, and the mystery only seems to deepen. Arrests made by local authorities have produced
allegations of torture, witness tampering and frame-ups -- but no convictions. Most here believe that the killer or killers
must have enormous clout. Perhaps, some say, the killers are narcotrafficantes disposing of witnesses. Perhaps they are
the sons of the wealthy and powerful indulging in sick sex. Perhaps they are cultists whose members come from the
highest levels of government and finance. The theories differ, but a common assumption is that arrests made thus far are
only a smokescreen for an historically opaque and corrupt government that will protect its dark secrets at any cost.
One thing seems clear: The murders arise from a social landscape that has been transformed by global economic forces.
Where Ciudad Juarez was once a small, sleepy desert outpost just across the border from El Paso, Texas, the population
in the past decade has exploded to 1.2 million people, many of them drawn by the lure of the maquiladoras. The tides of
people have overwhelmed the ability of the city to absorb them, overwhelmed health services, social services and law
enforcement. Free-trade advocates once promised that NAFTA would transform Juarez into the City of the Future -- and
they have been proven right in a way they never could have imagined. Today, Juarez still has the feel of the lawless Old
West, but with a grim 21st century edge.
Despite promises of swift justice from Mexican President Vicente Fox and Chihuahua Gov. Patricio Martinez, they have
yet to take up offers of assistance from the FBI; bureau agents in Texas have suggested that official corruption is
hindering efforts to stop the murders. Chihuahua state investigators have seemingly adopted a "don't ask, don't tell" policy
towards Juarez's homicides, fostering an atmosphere of impunity and pervasive fear. Foreign corporations operating in
Juarez that have employed many of the murdered women largely deny that such an atmosphere exists.
But in this postmodern urban culture, where the very concept of community has broken down, many bereaved family
members and local activists have begun to take matters into their own hands, investigating the murders and speaking out
even if it means threats and other reprisals.
Evangeline Arce's daughter, Silvia, a street vendor, disappeared on Nov. 3, 1998. Since that day, she said, the authorities
have done little to investigate. "Two days after my daughter disappeared, I went to the police and filed a report," the
mother says in Spanish, her face flaring with anger. "They promised me prompt action but when I checked back a week
later, the Missing persons report was never filed and the investigation had not even begun. When they finally got
witnesses together, none of them would talk because they were too afraid."
Even as Mexico continues to make strides toward becoming an open and democratic society, the epidemic of rape and
murder here has exposed the heavy residue of its corrupt and authoritarian political legacy as well as the contradictions of
its efforts at economic expansion.
To understand the magnitude of the breakdown, think of the sniper rampage in the Washington area this fall that left 10
people dead and three wounded. Imagine that Montgomery County Police Chief Charles Moose held a press conference
and asked local citizens to catch the sniper themselves because local police were not up to the task and the federal
government was not being helpful; imagine that the federal government charged that local officials in Montgomery County
were complicit in the killings and impeding the investigation. Chaos would ensue, certainly. But then, multiply. the number
of victims by 30, by 40, by 50, or more.
That's Juarez today.
The jumbled, exhaust-choked commercial core of this city has grown wildly in the wake of NAFTA, adding modern
shopping malls, condominiums and expansive boulevards. The population is growing at twice the rate of the national
average; it is expected to nearly double by 2010, to 2 million people. Many of them directly or indirectly rely on the 300 or
so maquiladoras for their livelihoods.
To accommodate the new army of workers, the city has given birth to entirely new sectors. The Campestre Juarez is a
luxurious conglomerate of gated communities, with a main gate that's a life-size replica of Paris' Arc de Triomphe. Nearby,
many of the maquiladoras are situated along the Avenida de la Industria. Though the assembly-line workers sometimes
can be glimpsed behind a plate glass window in aqua-blue uniforms, there usually is little sign of any activity behind the
maquiladoras' featureless walls.
Most of the new residents are poor, or on the brink of poverty, and they live in Anapra or another of the grim, violent
colonias populares on the outskirts of town. In those colonies, residents usually live without sanitation, running water,
electricity or paved roads.
Avenida Manuel Gomez Morin is the pothole-riddled six-lane avenue that ties these varied worlds together. Sitio Colosio
Valle, a medium-sized strip mall, stands on a corner of the avenue at the gateway to the industrial sector. It is fronted by a
vast parking lot and inside are various clothing outlets and boutiques. By day, the lot bustles as customers scurry back
and forth, hauling their purchases to their cars -- a sight similar to any mall in the suburban United States. By night,
however, traffic tapers off, stores lock up and the mall's lot becomes dark and desolate. Sitio Colosio Valle was where
many of the slain and missing women were last seen.
In the mall's parking lot, Braulio Rosas, a 40-year-old security guard, leans against the door of a giant Nike outlet. Inside
the store, under bright fluorescent lights, employees frantically check inventory and scramble to close up.
"A lot of girls were picked up here," Roses says in a voice of calm resignation. "But really, it's the girls' fault. It's because
even though they weren't putas, [prostitutes] you know, they were more like fad/es [easy women]. They didn't have to get
into those cars if they didn't want to."
Rosas sounds cynical, but blaming the victims is by no means an aberration in Juarez. Similar notions have been offered
by officials like Suly Ponce, the former Chihuahua special prosecutor in charge of the murdered women's cases.
"Sometimes there are cases that a girl meets some person, he strikes up a relationship with her, they drink ... and it ends
violently," she told the Washington Post in 2000, before she was promoted to a job in the governor's office. "It's difficult to
know."
A handful of the women found murdered since 1993 were indeed confirmed as prostitutes. But the truth is that a large
majority of the missing or murdered women were hardworking, young, poor and for the most part socially conservative.
Most had migrated to Juarez from Mexico's depressed south to work in the maquiladoras, sometimes arriving alone and
with little means of contacting their families back home.
The maquiladoras, run by companies like Delphi and RCA Thomson, prefer to hire young women for assembly-line jobs.
An entry-level assembly-line worker makes minimum wage, about $2 an hour. With experience, pay can rise to as much
as $2,50 an hour -- and compared to wages in Guerrero or Chiapas, that's good money. But in Juarez, the women are
caught in an economic trap: Since the cost of living here is only slighter lower than in El Paso, the wages that seem so
high to new maquiladora workers actually ensure poverty. The workers can be hired and fired on the spot, with little
pretext and no legal protection. And union activities are prohibited.
Even for those who accept the conditions, security is elusive. More often now, the global companies that own
maquiladoras are closing up shop and transferring operations to China to take advantage of lower taxes, investment
subsidies and outrageously cheap labor. On June 29, Royal Philips Electronics announced it was moving its P.C. monitor
manufacturing operations, at a cost of 900 jobs. On July 1, Scientific Atlanta fired 1,300 workers after shutting its plant
down. According to the Nov. 5 New York Times, this trend has cost Juarez 287,000 jobs in the maquiladoras since their
peak in October 2000.
Not only does this slash and burn the economic base. There are brutal social reverberations, too. The city's health
system, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, has reported 200,000 people falling from its list of insured after losing their
company policies, according to a July article in La Prensa. Esther Chavez Cano, director of Juarez's only battered-
women's shelter, Casa Amiga, said in a speech this summer that domestic violence cases had risen by 50 percent in July
alone.
The combination of poverty and a lack of social connections renders women on the assembly line powerless and virtually
invisible. And that has made them easy prey. According to the El Paso Times, about a third of the approximately 325 slain
women were employed by maquiladoras at the time of their murder.
Given that few of the maquiladoras provide shuttle service to and from the colonies, the female workers often are preyed
upon while walking through perilous places like Sitio Colosio Valle in the darkness of the early morning. At such an hour,
the only nearby activity is that of bars and nightclubs closing up as male patrons filter into the street after a long night of
drinking.
Besides China's attractive economic climate, an intangible cause of maquiladora flight is Juarez's chronic violence. The
effect is difficult to measure. Two companies in the city's industrial sector -- including TDK, the audio tape maker -- have
posted banners on their factories reading: "STOP THE VIOLENCE. To Better Our City, Let's Unite." But most foreign
companies are purely economic organisms governed entirely, it seems, by the dictates of efficiency. They have
maintained a stunning silence even as their female workers are slaughtered.
Consider the case of 17-year-old Claudia !vette Gonzalez. Her body was found in November 2001 along with seven
others in an overgrown cotton field on Avenida Technologico, just blocks from Sitio Colosio Valle mall and across the
street from the offices of the Association of Maquiladoras. She had worked on the assembly line for the Lear Corp., a
Detroit-based auto-interior supplier. Lear has declined to publicly address Gonzalez's murder.
Greg Bloom, editor of the Frontera Norte Sur -- an Internet news service that focuses on the U.S.-Mexico border --
recalled a conversation with Gonzalez's mother, Josefina, in which she recounted her daughter's last day. In the darkness
of the early morning, Gonzalez told him, Claudia set out for her job at Lear. When she arrived at work a few minutes late
after missing her bus, Claudia lvette was promptly sent away under a policy barring tardy assembly-line workers from their
shifts. A half-hour past when she usually would have returned home, her mother knew something was gravely wrong. Her
worst fear -- the same nagging fear shared by so many Juarez mothers -- would soon be realized.
Andrea Puchalsky, Lear's director of communications, acknowledged that the company has not made any public
statements regarding Gonzalez's murder, nor has it enacted any proactive measures to protect employees from another
wave of violence. "Adding security is not a question that relates to Lear," she said. "[Gonzalez's murder] did not happen
on Lear property."
When questioned about the murder and Lear policies, Puchalsky mentioned that a company memo was prepared for her
with responses to possible questions. As to Lear's worker-lockout policy, which apparently put Gonzalez in a precarious
situation the day of her abduction, Puchalsky declined to comment on whether Gonzalez was locked out or sent home
from Lear's plant on her last day.
"We have a policy for tardiness and she was tardy many times," Puchalsky said. "When she had arrived late to work her
shift, she was not there in time to work her shift."
When asked whether Lear's offices in the U.S. have a similar policy in which late employees are barred from working their
shifts, Puchalsky reversed her earlier statement, vehemently denying that such a policy existed anywhere within Lear's
operations. "There is not a policy to send a worker home after X number of tardy arrivals," she said. "Typically what we do
is if there is someone arriving late on kind of a warning system, there might be a notification that 'the next time you arrive
late, you have to take a day off ...' It's not a policy, though. There is no written policy like that throughout Lear Corp."
The body of 17-year-old Lilia Alejandra Garcia was found mutilated just 300 feet from her maquiladora in February 2001,
and since then her case has come to embody the incompetence and corruption of police and prosecutors from Ciudad
Juarez to the state capital in Chihuahua City and south all the way to Mexico City.
Garcia, the mother of a 5-month-old baby and a 2-year-old child, apparently was kidnapped just after she left work. She
was held in captivity for a week, repeatedly beaten and raped, and then strangled. Then-prosecutor Suly Ponce told the
Juarez newspaper El Diario that Garcia was the first woman of the year to be murdered and raped in this area of the city -
- even though two days before, the body of an unidentified woman was found naked just blocks away.
When an FBI leak revealed witness testimony linking Lilia Garcia's killers to drug dealers, Suly Ponce dismissed it, calling
it erroneous. She instead blamed workers in a circus across the street from the strip mall where Garcia was last seen.
When circus managers claimed that Ponce offered them money to blame co-workers, she dropped the investigation.
According to a July article in the El Paso Times, former Chihuahua state forensic chief Oscar Maynez Grijalva said Garcia
was killed in a similar manner as three of the eight women found in the cotton field with Claudia 'vette Gonzalez in
November 2001. Curiously, local authorities behaved just as evasively in that investigation as in Garcia's.
When Gonzalez and the seven other women's bodies were found in November 2001, ex-Chihuahua Attorney General
Arturo Gonzalez Rascon immediately fingered two local bus drivers as the culprits. Yet doubts about their guilt arose,
especially after Grijalva -- who was Rascon's evidence expert at the time -- resigned from his post, citing pressure to
fabricate evidence against them. And the head of a local prison was forced from office when he documented signs of
torture on the accused men after they had returned from Rascon's office.
Four months later, in February 2002, a search-and-rescue team combing the cotton field found Claudia lvette Gonzalez's
overalls in a plastic bag, along with strands of hair and other crucial pieces of evidence that Rascon's investigators had
failed to discover. In response, Rascon offered his opinion to the El Paso Times: "The state police have done a thoroughly
professional job. I have no doubt about that." But on Oct. 28, DNA results revealed that Rascon's investigators had
properly identified only one of the eight dead women -- Gonzalez.
Stuck with a far more dubious task than catching one madman or replacing one feeble leader, Juarez's fractured civil
society has been paralyzed. A cynical mood is palpable just by speaking to citizens on the street, who unanimously
express fear and distrust of law-enforcement and government officials. Some local cops are just as cynical.
"We can't just sit around in deserted places waiting for someone to drive up and dump bodies off," said one municipal
police officer seated in an idling paddy wagon who refused to give his name for security reasons. "There are too few of us
and the city's too big ... We don't get much support from the federal government. Judicially, we are not protected like cops
in the U.S. Plus, the arms they give us are weak and the bulletproof vests don't really stop bullets. It's not just that,
though. I have a young woman in my home so I can put myself in the place of the parents who have lost their daughters.
But it's a question of society. We need their support and they need them to be more conscious if it is going to get any
better here."
The scope of the crime is so enormous, and there has been so little success in stopping it, that suspicion breeds on itself.
The litany of theories as to who the killers are and what their motive might be suggests that Juarez has become a
breeding ground for every imaginable predator. And yet, nobody knows. Nothing is certain. And that feeds the climate of
paranoia.
Garcia and Gonzalez's murders are rumored to be the work of a serial killer with possible ties to drug dealers. Yet Garcia
was found with marks on her wrists that, according to local forensics experts, were identical to those made by police
handcuffs. And upon the discovery of her daughter's overalls, Josefina Gonzalez told the El Paso Times that someone
powerful was undoubtedly responsible for the murder.
Many in Mexico's law enforcement community agree that a ring of rich men are behind some of the killings, but they have
no evidence to support the theory. Some suggest that some young men from the local aristocracy are responsible, but are
being protected by their parents. A persistent theory holds that the murders -- or a significant subset of them -- are linked
to powerful narcotraficantes who have co-opted segments of the local ruling class.
And the cynicism has been exacerbated by the fact that of the 17 men and one woman accused as serial killer
masterminds of the murders, only one has been convicted, Abdel Latif Sharif Sharif, an Egyptian chemist and resident of
Texas at the time of his extradition to Mexico in 1995. Currently, Sharif is awaiting sentencing for allegedly paying a drug
trafficker named Victor Manuel Rivera Moreno to carry out about a dozen murders. However, evidence against Sharif is
suspect and charges against him have been changed repeatedly. Once he was even charged with killing a woman,
Elizabeth Ontiveros, who showed up later at police offices to prove she was alive.
In 1996, Sharif was accused of paying the gang Los Rebeldes to kill 17 women. Then, in 1999, he was charged with hiring
five bus drivers and an El Paso man from his jail cell to kill seven women. Officials claimed Sharif hired the killers to
deflect blame from himself. By 1999, judges had cleared him of all charges, citing an absence of concrete evidence and
the possibility of witness intimidation by prosecutors.
Suly Ponce, who supervised the case, has yet to make a compelling case against him. In a 1999 radio interview, rather
than presenting hard evidence, she claimed Sharif was aggressively hostile toward women because of his Egyptian
background. Now she says that the case against Sharif hinges on Moreno's declaration that Sharif paid him to carry out
the killings with money he earned from 13 patents he developed for Benchmark Research and Technology. But according
to an article in the El Paso Times, Benchmark has never paid employees for patent development. In a telephone interview
last week with Salon, Ponce said she hadn't known this. Angela Paiaveras, the current special prosecutor, declined to
discuss Sharif's case or any aspect of the investigations.
Many local residents scoff at the notion that the killers have been caught. "We don't believe that the guys they have
arrested are the killers," says Miguel Angel Jaramillo, a mid-level manager for the Lear Corp. "It's obvious that they're just
scapegoats."
Yet Ponce remains ardent in her belief that Sharif is at the center of the murders. "Today the killings continue because
there are many imitators," she told Salon last week. "But after Sharif was caught, there were almost no homicides for a
year." But according to the Juarez daily El Diario, the year immediately after Sharif was jailed -- a period spanning from
October 1995 to October 1996 -- 28 young women were found murdered.
Meanwhile, the theories flourish and become more and more paranoid, reflecting a breakdown in public trust. By one
popular theory, the women are being murdered at blood rituals for a cabal of wealthy, powerful men. Another theory posits
a financial motive for murder. "We're finding a lot of girls that are mutilated in the same way," says a young municipal
police officer who declined to give his name. "Someone's probably killing them to take their organs to sell them for a lot of
money in the U.S." When asked if there was any evidence to support the theory, the officer replied that it was only a
hunch.
Such a climate sends a message to the killers every day: You can get away with anything, even a crime on this scale. But
where such a climate breeds cynicism and hopelessness among people who live and work here, it has also provoked an
incipient revolt.
On her radio show "Grueso Calibre" ("Large Caliber"), popular host Samira lzaguirre frequently aired the views of guests
who were critical of how authorities handled the murders. When Attorney General Rascon accused the two bus drivers of
the cotton field murders in November 2001, lzaguirre hosted the drivers' wives on her show. After that interview,
advertisements began appearing in local newspapers smearing lzaguirre with claims that she frequented strip clubs and
was romantically involved with one of the bus drivers. News media on both sides of the border have reported that the
receipt for the ad was signed by government officials who paid for it.
Then, in February, when lzaguirre started organizing a vigil and announced a hunger strike on her show on Radio Canon,
she was fired. Fearing for her safety, she moved across the border to El Paso.
Others, too, have discovered that pressing the complaint too forcefully brings reprisal. Marisela Ortiz, co-director of
Nuestras Hijas Regreso a Casa (Our Daughters Back Home), a legal support group for victims' parents, was a frequent
guest on "Grueso Calibre." Like Izaguirre, Ortiz has focused her resources on drawing attention to government and police
incompetence in the slain women's cases. And she says that, like lzaguirre, she has faced ever-increasing danger.
In Nuestras Hijas' office in central Juarez, located inside a small one-story row house with a "For Rent" sign out front,
Ortiz described the shadow of terror that has stalked her since she began pressuring the authorities.
She claims she was threatened by ex-Chihuahua District Attorney Arturo Gonzalez Rascon. "Rascon came all the way to
Juarez [from Chihuahua City] to tell me not to involve myself in all the cases," she tells Salon. "Then I got a message on
my phone saying: 'You have daughters that are alive. Take care of them." Rascon, in an earlier story by the Associated
Press, denied the allegation.
Last May, Ortiz says, she was pursued by men in a black pickup truck who tried to kidnap her. She believes the attempt
was orchestrated by Rascon's office since it occurred only a day before she had planned to travel to El Paso for a meeting
with the FBI and Texas state Sen. Eliot Shapleigh, D-El Paso, who is calling for a bi-national investigation into the
murders.
Victims' parents who came to Nuestras Hijas for help in finding their missing daughters also say they have been
threatened. Mario Lee Lopez and his wife, Soledad Aguilar, lost their daughter, Cecilia Covarrubias. She was kidnapped
in 1995 along with their granddaughter, who was two months old. By now their granddaughter would be 7, and Lopez and
Aguilar's own investigation has led them to believe that she is alive and living in the custody of a well-connected local
family.
To an outsider it is a desperate story, all but impossible to prove. Lopez accuses Ponce of coordinating the coverup of the
kidnappings and murder: again, Ponce denies the charge. And she was adamant that government officials have harassed
no one. "I didn't have any knowledge of threats against anybody," she said. "On the contrary, we support the families and
they are encouraged to be intimately involved in the investigations."
Lopez recalls an incident in which he had gone to Juarez's judicial building to press his granddaughter's case and did not
exactly find the kind of support Ponce mentioned. While leaving the court, Lopez says, he was confronted by a high-
ranking minister who warned that if he didn't drop the investigation, he would be tortured with electric shock devices.
"But it's too late to stop now," Lopez adds with a wistful smile.
Despite the campaign against lzaguirre, or perhaps because of it, the vigil took place as scheduled in March. It was an
unprecedented show of solidarity, with thousands of people gathered in the cotton field where Gonzalez and the seven
others were found in an irrigation ditch. There are still tatters of yellow police tape there, and candleholders left from the
vigil are strewn over the site. Eight red crosses mark the spot where the bodies were found.
However, city officials have no plans to memorialize the site as Juarez's residents have. In fact, according to a Sept. 4
article in El Diario, the site is now being used as a dumping ground for Juarez's Department of Parks and Gardens.
Near downtown Juarez there is a monument to Abraham Lincoln, honoring him for "establishing North American
industries, today the most important in the world." Not far away is a simple gallery where the Collective Antigone [Antigone
Collective], a group of local artists, has organized a series of public performances, installations and conferences focused
on Juarez's crisis of violence.
Each week, the artists gather to collaborate and discuss strategy. At a table with 12 other artists and writers, in an
expansive room filled with cubist-inspired paintings, Antonio Munoz Ortega, a 51-year-old writer, describes the Collective's
goals and the problems confronting the group. "Our government is authoritarian, and authoritarian governments are
principally concerned with the manipulation of life," he says. "The victims' families feel manipulated by the authorities'
insensitivity and this has manifested a greater and greater cynicism here that's really dangerous. The struggle, then, is for
reparation and simply regaining our daily lives."
Ortega says he was moved to action by Samira Izaguirre's candlelight vigil in March. He describes the building of an
impromptu church in front of the Association of Maquiladoras office as an effort to "communicate through a different
language, one that's symbolic." This decision, he says, helped lead to the formation of the Collective.
The rallying cry for Collectiva Antigona, as evidenced by the name, has been Sophocles Greek tragedy, "Antigone,"
which tells the tale of a girl's persecution at the hands of a cruel dictator for burying her brother. The Collectiva has
organized readings of the play around the state of Chihuahua and plans a public performance in the future.
The Collectiva also has begun to establish a visual presence around central Juarez, most noticeably by painting a wall
spanning an entire block with poetry written by participants in a recent writer's conference on violence against women. On
Nov. 1 and 2, the Mexican holiday Dia de los Muertos, the collective filled a room with traditional altars honoring the
victims along with a giant cross in the center of the room covered with masks, intended to symbolize the anonymity of the
victims. An estimated 1,500 people viewed the exhibit. A week later, working with Nuestras Hijas, the collective placed a
coffin and flowers and had a bonfire in the cotton field ditch where Claudia Ivette Gonzalez and seven others were found.
"It is absolutely necessary to affect civil society with the intention of shaking the indolence and to provoke some sort of
reaction from the people," says Mariela Paniagua, a 41-year-old painter. "People are no longer affected by what is
happening in this city. They have lost the capacity for outrage in the face of these acts."
While Collectiva Antigona meets, another group gathers a few miles away to combat Juarez's violence by drastically
different means. Past the seemingly endless rows of cardboard hovels in the desperately poor CoIonia Morelos, beyond
the municipal dump, on a rocky desert mesa in the shadow of Mount Indio, members of a search-and-rescue group called
Banda Civil spread out through the hills to search for more murder victims.
Luz Elena Guerrero Guerra, a strong-looking woman in her late 50s with an intense gaze, serves as president of one of
Banda Civil's six divisions. Guerra tells of how it began as a search-and-rescue group in 1985 to assist during a massive
earthquake in Mexico City and evolved to respond to Juarez's crisis. She herself found the first slain women's bodies in
1989, before investigators had even identified the deadly trend. Today, Banda Civil's members still lend their help during
natural disasters but the bulk of their work comes in the search for bodies, monitoring of schools and a citywide crime-
awareness campaign.
Ever-present terror, coupled with the impotence of Juarez's authorities, forced Banda Civil's transformation, Guerra says.
"I've narrowly escaped violence many times," she explains. "Sometimes it is just pure luck that a bus or a taxi happens to
come by in time when someone is chasing me ... All of us, we're uncertain of what the authorities are telling us. That's our
indignation. If they [the authorities] aren't interested in helping, we'll pressure them."
Because the group is required by law to cooperate with police, some view it with suspicion. Yet they have had success
where most other activist groups have failed. It was Banda Civil members who made the crucial discovery of Claudia
lvette Gonzalez's overalls in February, humiliating Attorney General Rascon and breathing new life into the investigation.
And Banda Civil has continued to find more evidence during their weekly searches of Juarez's human dumping grounds.
Besides its role as a search-and-rescue/quasi-vigilante group, Banda Civil has the feel of a support group, providing
members with an outlet from the daily fear that comes with life in Juarez. According to Guerra, over 300 people have
accompanied the group on searches and many of them are family members of missing women. And indeed, the searches
are a family activity.
On one recent Saturday, the search was joined by about 60 participants of all ages and from all sectors of Juarez society,
including a middle manager from the Lear Corp. There were no terrible discoveries that day, and yet afterward, as people
stood around talked and listened to norteno music blaring from a car stereo, it was evident just how deeply the murders
are ingrained into life here -- and how some people are fighting back with whatever tools they have at hand. Perhaps the
quiet optimism is derived from the age-old Mexican axiom that death brings about rebirth.
"Instead of spending our time criticizing the authorities, we're trying to find some solutions," says Santos. "We all have
sisters and daughters here and we all feel the same. My daughter is in danger. I can't let her live like this."
-- By Max Blumenthal
[3(
Copyright © 2010 Salon Media Group, Inc. Reproduction of material from any Salon pages without written permission is
strictly prohibited. SALON® is registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as a trademark of Salon Media Group
Inc.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Fyi. Good news!
 --- 

Great - I have to brief her tomorrow on Haiti - I will tell her we are re-looking at it.
cdm
 --- 

Remind me to discuss this traffic w/ you.
Cdm
 --- 

NOTE: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC WILL BE TAPING B-ROLL FOOTAGE
THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
7:50 am DEPART Private Residence *En route State Department
8:00 am ARRIVE State Department
8:00 am OPENING SESSION OF US-PAKISTAN STRATEGIC DIALOGUE
9:15 am Benjamin Franklin Room, 8th Floor *Open press for first 30 minutes
9:15 am OFFICE TIME
9:35 am Secretary's Office
9:40 am MCC BOARD PREP
9:55 am Secretary's Office
10:00 am CHAIR MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
12:00 pm (MCC) BOARD MEETING Principals Conference Room 7516
12:00 pm OFFICE TIME
1:00 pm Secretary's Office
1:00 pm VIDEOS (2)
1:05 pm John Jay Room, 751 Floor
1:10 pm CONFERENCE CALL w/SENATORS SHAHEEN AND VOINOVICH
1:25 pm Secretary's Office
1:30 pm PRE-BRIEF MEETING
1:45 pm Secretary's Office
1:45 pm PREP CALL w/DEFENSE SECRETARY GATES
2:15 pm Secretary's Office
2:30 pm BILATERAL w/PAKISTANI F.M. MAIM-
DOOM SHAH MEHMOOD
3:00 pm QURESHI Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
3:00 pm PRESS PRE-BRIEF
3:05 pm Secretary's Office
3:05 pm JOINT PRESS CONFERENCE w/PAKESTANI FM QURESHI
3:25 pm Treaty Room, 7th Floor
3:45 pm HEARING PREP w/RICH VERMA AND TEAM
4:30 pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm DROP-BY AT THE RECEPTION FOR THE US-PAKISTAN
4:45 pm STRATEGIC DIALOGUE Benjamin Franklin Room, 8th Floor *Aprox. 270
ppl. expected.
4:55 pm DEPART State Department *En route Admiral Mullen's Residence
5:00 pm ARRIVE Mullen Residence
5:00 pm US-PAKISTAN SMALL GROUP DISCUSSION
7:00 pm Admiral Mullen's Residence, Quarters AA
7:00 pm US-PAKISTAN WORKING DINNER
9:00 pm Admiral Mullen's Residence, Quartets AA
9:05 pm (t) DEPART Mullen's Residence *En route Private Residence
9:15 pm (t) ARRIVE Private Residence
FYI:
7:30 am US-PAKISTAN STRATEGIC DIALOGUE BREAKFAST
8:00 am Thomas Jefferson Room, 81h Floor
12:30 pm US-PAKISTAN STRATEGIC DIALOGUE LUNCH
2:00 pm Benjamin Franklin Room, 8thFloor
1:30 pm US-PAKISTAN STRATEGIC DIALOGUE MEETING
3:30 pm Henry Clay Room, 8th Floor
###
 --- 

Yes
B5
For discussion:
B6
1. INL
cdm
 --- 

Correct -
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Wednesday, March 24, 2010 6:49 AM
H
RE: Personnel
 --- 

I checked last friday and was told it went up to you -- am checking again now. AM
 --- 

FYI
http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/03/10/lugar no more money for development banks until reform
Lugar: No more money for development banks until reform
Posted By Josh Rogin Wednesday, March 10, 2010
In the wake of the global financial crisis, a slew of multinational development banks are asking for large amounts of new
capital to both replenish and in some cases expand their resource pools, and much of the burden will fall on the United
States.
This creates a unique opportunity for the Obama administration to press these organizations to implement long-awaited
reforms, according to the Senate's top Republican on foreign relations, who has a big say in whether and how the
Congress doles out the funds.
"As the world struggles to emerge from the worst economic crisis since World War II, it is an appropriate time to ask
whether the [International Financial Institutions] are performing optimally and doing the jobs they should be doing,"
reads a newly released report by the staff of Sen. Richard Lugar, R-IN, "The crisis should not be used as an excuse to win
increases that could not otherwise be justified. As the requests for capital are negotiated with the international donor
community, there is a window of opportunity for significant reform."
The report, which is the culmination of six years of research, including half a dozen hearings when Lugar was committee
chairman, outlines several dozen recommendations for what the Obama administration, Congress, and the banks can do
to update their relevance.
"Does the world really need the IMF, World Bank, African Development Bank, Asian Development Bank, European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, and Inter-American Development Bank today? Can they be changed to better
address our needs? How should we re-design them?" the report asks.
"Such questions are particularly timely because nearly all the IFIs have sought, or will soon seek, major new infusions of
money from their donors, including the taxpayers of the United States."
The Asian Development Bank has already asked the Obama administration for new funds, and the administration has
requested in its new budget $533 million in direct money and $12.8 billion in borrowing authority for the ADB.
A committee staffer told The Cable that Lugar wants to see progress on reform before he would support authorizing the
money.
"We want to make sure that before the American taxpayer puts more money in there that things are fixed," the staffer
said. "It's not possible for them to do everything, but they could certainly make progress."
The reforms the administration could press for in the short term include pressing the banks to focus more on
development goals rather than the structure and size of loans and "work with the other donor countries to step back
and slow down the process," the staffer said.
Congress is also concerned that the Obama administration might not be interested in pressing for these reforms,
considering that Obama issued a signing statement in June indicating he did not feel bound to follow congressional
direction on such international negotiations.
Negotiations between several banks and the Treasury Department are ongoing. The U.S. side is led by Scott Morris,
deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury's Office of International Development Finance and Debt.
The issue will next surface at the end of March when the Inter-American Development Bank convenes its annual
meeting in Cancun.
Michael H. Fuchs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-1709
 --- 

No -- I will add.
 --- 

Also is the gender entity in there -- the new women's agency Look at my UN remarks last week I have several parags on
it
 --- 

No, should be there
 --- 

It should be ready for you. We'll get it on your desk.
 --- 

I just confirmed that we sent it up on Friday and it definitely went into the line.
 --- 

Sandy levin returned your call
 --- 

1. Colorado
2. June 2011
3. Policy plan
 --- 

Have readout at your convenience.
 --- 

Remind me to discuss when we talk
 --- 


 --- 

Yes - will call at 930am - have calls starting now
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Not yet.
She said she would send it but haven't got info yet.
III check in
 --- 

Well well
 --- 

you are going to be in estoniaand as you know we talked about israel for this trip as well potentially (although maybe we
are never going there....).
ii told zach becfore they scheduled to do it earlier in the week if they really wanted you to be able to come.
he said they couldnt and you and i discussed getting the dvd for you.
i did tell cvc as well that moving party from the april 10th date to the 24th would make it difficult for you to go. unless
you want us to make the schedule work somehow.
 --- 


 --- 

sbwhoeop
Wednesday, March 24, 2010 11:11 PM
h: FYI, Iran document Gary Sick sent me. Sid
From Gary Sick
Mojtaba Samareh Hashemi is a senior adviser to President Ahmadinejad and a devoted proponent of the Divine Right of
Kings doctrine of ultra-conservative ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi. Many regard him as an eminence grise of the Iranian regime
and an important bridge between the Revolutionary Guards, the fanatic-fringe ayatollahs, and the presidency. So his
words are worth listening to as clues to what is happening inside the closed circles of the Iranian leadership.
Today he was quoted by the Fars news agency (in Persian) on the troublesome issue of U.S.-Iran relations. Although the
statement was translated into English, it needs more than a word-for-word translation in order to be understood. So I have
added my own interpretation of what Mojtaba really meant to say.
"Obama not only did not manage to realize his slogan [of change], but has pursued the dark policies of Bush all over the
world ever more energetically..."
[real meaning: Oh, how we miss George Bush! He was such an easy target. With him we were winning everywhere and
America's credibility was falling to the point of disappearance even among its friends.]
"The Bush presidency is one of the darkest eras of the United States and the greatest hatred emerged internationally
towards the United States..."
[Why can't Obama be more like Bush? In the good old days we didn't have to keep answering questions about why we
would not accept an outstretched hand of friendship. It was all so much easier then.]
"Today we see that the United States rather than moving its military forces out of Iraq and Afghanistan has increased their
number which has led to mass murder of the people and increased impoverishment in these countries. Obama had said
that he wanted to oppose violation of human rights and wanted to close Guantanamo and secret prisons in Europe. Did
this happen? Of course not..."
[The United States has announced its withdrawal from Iraq and actually seems to be on schedule; in the meantime, our
favorite parties and politicians in Iraq have not done all that well in the Iraqi elections despite our support. The Shi'i
religious leaders in Najaf openly dismiss the idea of an Islamic Republic and are increasingly competing with us, instead
of following our lead. In Afghanistan, the Americans seem to be serious about announcing a date certain for withdrawal,
and they even seem to be edging up to a Karzai reconciliation strategy with the Taliban. How can we attack them with a
straight face when they behave this way!]
"There has also not been any correction of the dark policy of Bush towards Iran's nuclear program or [the United State's]
opposition towards the Iranian nation..."
[Their willingness to meet with us and that dastardly offer of a uranium swap were hugely embarrassing. Now every time
we sit down with a foreign leader we have to listen to tiresome suggestions that we should reconsider our position on the
uranium swap — even from the Russians and Chinese. You can't trust anyone these days!]
"We do not want anything from the United States. The Iranian nation demands its rights to be recognized and
respected..."
[All we want from the Americans is the return of George Bush! Even John McCain would be an improvement. I wonder if
Sarah Palin has any chance? We'll keep our fingers crossed.]
"The Islamic Republic has not become isolated, rather, it is expanding [its foreign relations] ever more and is finding new
friends... if they have claims, they must show it in their actions so the Iranian nation gradually trusts them..."
[We have never been so alone since the earliest years of the revolution. Even dictators and police states are privately
expressing sympathy to us for the way our crackdown on the Green Movement attracted sympathetic attention all over the
world. And it's all the fault of that *&!*Obama and the %$#! internet. The shah never had all these problems. Ah, for the
good old days...]
 --- 


 --- 

Yes we figured that?
 --- 

News to me
They want you to call the new ukrainian foreign minister but that's all I know.
 --- 

The plan is to have a large screen off to your side so that it won't get in the way of a tight shot. We've worked with
National Geographic on the photos -- some of which are quite stunning -- and they'll pace the presentation slowly with
long transitions so it's not distracting. I've folded the images into the text I'm sending you, but you'll have a
teleprompter on stage tomorrow.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Any preference to front or back end? He is set for 2:45pm.
 --- 

B5
B5
There is a proposed letter that should be in your weekend reading materials. Adding Huma to see if she's seen it.,
I will make sure it gets to you now.
B5
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Thursday, March 25, 2010 10:16 AM
H: Haaretz chief columnist on Bibi's visit. Sid
htto://www. haaretz.com/hasers/spagesil 158992. html
Aluf Benn / Netanyahu leaves U.S. disgraced, isolated and weaker
By Ake Berm
Details emerging from Benjamin Netanyahu's visit to Washington remain incomplete, but the conclusion may nonetheless
be drawn that the prime minister erred in choosing to fly to the United States this week. The visit - touted as a fence-
mending effort, a bid to strengthen the tenuous ties between Netanyahu and U.S. President Barack Obama - only
highlighted the deep rift between the American and Israeli administrations.
The prime minister leaves America disgraced, isolated, and altogether weaker than when he came.
Instead of setting the diplomatic agenda, Netanyahu surrendered control over it. Instead of leaving the Palestinian issue
aside and focusing on Iran, as he would like, Netanyahu now finds himself fighting for the legitimacy of Israeli control over
East Jerusalem.
Advertisement
The most sensitive and insoluble core issues - those which when raised a decade ago led to the dissolution of
the peace process and explosion of the second intifada - are now being served as a mere appetizer.
At the start of his visit, Netanyahu was tempted to bask in the warm welcome he received at the AIPAC conference, at
which he gave his emotional address on Jerusalem.
Taking a page from Menachem Begin, he spoke not on behalf of the State of Israel, but in the name of the Jewish people
itself and its millennia of history.
His speech was not radical rightist rhetoric. Reading between the lines, one could spot a certain willingness to relinquish
West Bank settlements as long as Israel maintains a security buffer in the Jordan Valley.
But at the White House, the prime minister's speech to thousands of pro-Israel activists and hundreds of cheering
congressmen looked like an obvious attempt to raise political capital against the American president.
Knowing Netanyahu would be reenergized by his speech at the lobby, Obama and his staff set him a honey trap. Over the
weekend they sought to quell the row that flared up during U.S. Vice President Joe Biden's trip here two weeks ago, and
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton described Netanyahu's response to the ultimatums Washington presented to him
as "useful."
Special envoy George Mitchell made a televised visit to the prime minister's bureau Sunday to invite Netanyahu to the
White House. Washington, it seemed, was trying to make nice.
Far from it. Just when Netanyahu thought he had resolved the crisis by apologizing to Biden, Clinton called him up for a
dressing down.
This time as well, Netanyahu almost believed the crisis had passed, that he had survived by offering partial. noncommittal
answers to the Americans' questions. Shortly before meeting with Obama, Netanyahu even warned the Palestinians that
should they continue to demand a freeze on construction, he would postpone peace talks by a year.
His arrogant tone underscored the fact that Netanyahu believed that on the strength of his AIPAC speech, he could call
the next few steps of the diplomatic dance.
But then calamity struck. At their White House meeting, Obama made clear to his guest that the letter Netanyahu had
sent was insufficient and returned it for further corrections. Instead of a reception as a guest of honor, Netanyahu was
treated as a problem child, an army private ordered to do laps around the base for slipping up at roll call.
The revolution in the Americans' behavior is clear to all. On Sunday morning Obama was still anxiously looking ahead to
the House of Representatives vote on health care - the last thing he wanted was a last-minute disagreement with
congressmen over ties with Israel.
The moment the bill was passed, however, a victorious Obama was free to deal with his unruly guest.
The Americans made every effort to downplay the visit. As during his last visit in November, Netanyahu was invited to the
White House at a late hour, without media coverage or a press conference. If that were not enough, the White House
spokesman challenged Netanyahu's observation at AIPAC that "Jerusalem is not a settlement."
The Americans didn't even wait for him to leave Washington to make their disagreement known. It was not the behavior
Washington shows an ally, but the kind it shows an annoyance.
The approval of construction at the Shepherd Hotel in Sheikh Jarrah, announced before his meeting with Obama, again
caught Netanyahu unawares. Apparently the special panel appointed after the Ramat Shlomo debacle to prevent such
surprises failed its first test.
Netanyahu is having his most difficult week since returning to office, beginning with the unfortunate decision to relocate
the planned emergency room at Ashkelon's Barzilai Medical Center and lasting through his humiliating jaunt through
Washington.
Returning to Israel today, Netanyahu will need to work hard to rehabilitate his image, knowing full well that Obama will not
relent, but instead demand that he stop zigzagging and decide, once and for all, whether he stands with America or with
the settlers.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

I have attached a copy of the status report for the Pakistan Communications Plan which was approved last September.
You will note that we have made progress on many fronts. The Post has significantly increased its engagement with the
media and responds immediately to rumors and inaccurate stories. There has also been a significant increase in the
number of exchange participants. We are continuing to experience difficulty in filling critical positions and I am working
with Nancy Powell to address this issue.
Please let me know if you have any questions or comments.
JM
 --- 

I've sent the file to Ops. They'll fax over a black and white version momentarily, and send a color copy via courier.
 --- 

He is available until about 645 tonight. After that he catches a flight to london. I will add to your grid.
 --- 

High Representative and 3 State Secretaries)
Importance: High
Haiti Donor Conference Update.
See below.
We have calls for you to call Qatar and UAE for funds (also on your call sheet was Saudis and Kuwait — have not seen
them register yet nor have they told our embassies yet).
Also — am going to head to Haiti for day on the CoDEL and sit with GOH on the development authority — just had long
convo with WJC.
cdm
 --- 


 --- 

B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
B5
Bill Luers sent me this report yesterday
07/30/2015 — Class: CONFIDENTIAL —
Reason: 1.4(B), 1.4(D) — Declassify on:
03/24/2035
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Sunday, March 21, 2010 4:30 PM
RE: letter
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 

You should have Bob's memo on China currency, which he worked through with Bill. See below his further
elaboration:
 --- 

Okay -- working on that.
 --- 


 --- 

I believe so.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Is ready to come pick up the speech when you have it done. Just shoot him and email. I think it's really close. It's
gone out to the team again for any serious flags or omissions, but they've been warned you're line editing.
 --- 

Also, you'll get Bibi points tonight, fresh from the road.
 --- 

Will do.
 --- 

Yep
 --- 

checked in with carlos and he says it would be useful, but not critical for you to call espinosa will have points for you
tomorrow in case you want to do
 --- 

2010 12:12 AM
sbwhoeop
Monday, Marc 2
I just want to drop you a note congratulating you on the vote tonight on health care, that whatever its imperfections the
establishment of the principle is a vindication. You might take a moment of personal privilege tomorrow to express
gratitude to Nancy Pelosi, the House, and the President for finally achieving the work of years. Sid
 --- 

See below. How would you like to proceed? B5
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Thank you for your message. I am currently traveling on official business and can be reached on my Blackberry.
If you need assistance with a scheduling matter please reach out to my Scheduler, Eric Woodard, at 202-647-1522.
For all other issues needing immediate attention please contact my Chief-of-Staff, Simon Limage, at 202-647-1749.
 --- 

Will do.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ©state.gov>
Thursday, March 25, 2010 11:17 PM
H
Mills, Cheryl D
RCH
 --- 


 --- 

agree
 --- 

Per the earlier email
cdm
 --- 

Will ask.
 --- 

Absolutely. That's what you have a think tank for! On a related note, while it may not be useful for Pakistan, I think we
shd find ways to work qddr briefings/discussions into our strategic dialogues w/ india and china, to talk about how we
are rethinking both diplomacy and development -- maybe also w/ South Africa. AM
 --- 

Did cheryl pass this message from carlos pascual to you? Wanted to make sure u saw
Madam Secretary -
One of our Mexican staff and the husbands of two Mexican employees were killed last night in Juarez.
In one case a Mexican employee and her husband were leaving a party hosted by another Mexican employee. They were
in separate vehicles. He was stopped by a hit squad and killed before her.
In a second case a Mexican employee and her husband were killed leaving the same party. Their 3 month-old baby was
left alive in the back seat.
We have activated all investigative and intelligence channels to learn all we can. The head of Mexico's intelligence
service called to express President Calderon's condolences and to offer any support we need. Patricia Espinosa is aware.
She may call you. We will let you know if there are any leads on why this tragedy occurred.
Carlos Pascual
 --- 

Will do.
 --- 

Yes. Any specific window?
 --- 

Ok calling you with carlos after u r done with rch.
 --- 

Yes. I will be finished going through it this morning before your meeting. Happy to discuss/report when you come in.
 --- 

7:30 am PHONE CALL w/LEBANESE PRIME MINISTER SAAD HARIRI
Private Residence
8:45 am DEPART Private Residence *En route White House
8:55 am ARRIVE White House
9:00 am WEEKLY MEETING w/POTUS
9:30 am Oval Office
9:35 am DEPART White House *En route State Department
9:40 am ARRIVE State Department
9:45 am OFFICE TIME
10:15 am Secretary's Office
10:20 am DEPART State Department *En route White House
10:25 am ARRIVE White House
10:30 am POTUS STATEMENT ON START TREATY AGREEMENT
11:15 am (t) Oval Office/White House Briefmg Room
11:20 am (t) DEPART White House *En route State Department
11:25 am ARRIVE State Department
11:30 am MEETING w/SE SCOTT GRATION
12:00 pm Secretary's Office
12:00 pm BILATERAL w/CYPRIOT FM MARKOS ICYPRIANOU
12:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Camera spray in Treary Room preceding.
12:00 pm OFFICE TIME
1:00 pm Secretary's Office
1:00 pm PHOTOS
1:10 pm Secretary's Office
1:15 pm INTERVIEW w/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
2:00 pm Monroe Room, gth Floor
2:00 pm DROP BY w/KEN MILLER
2:20 pm Secretary's Office
2:20 pm DROP-BY w/LISSA
2:40 pm Secretary's Office
2:45 pm REMARKS TO STATE DEPARTMENT SPRING INTERNS,
3:15 pm STAY-IN-SCHOOL AND CO-OP STUDENTS, CIVIL SERVICE
CAREER ENTRY PROFESSIONALS, AND PRESIDENTIAL
MANAGEMENT FELLOWS L.oy Henderson Conference Room
3:30 pm CONFERENCE CALL w/SENATORS MAX BAUCUS AND JON TESTER
3:45 pm Secretary's Office
3:45 pm OFFICE TIME
5:15 pm Secretary's Office
5:20 pm DEPART State Department *En route Washington National Airport
5:25 pm PHONE INTERVIEW w/JESSLE LICHTENSTEIN, NYT MAGAZINE
5:35 pm En route Washington National Airport
5:40 pm ARRIVE Washington National Airport
6:00 pm DEPART Washington National Airport via US Airways Shuttle #2182
En route New York. NY
7:24 pm ARRIVE New York, New York-LaGuardia Airport
7:30 pm DEPART New York-LaGuardia Airport
En route Private Residence
8:20 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
 --- 

Has a call into to you. It's on your grid. His staff would not provide a subject matter. Rich is aware of this call.
5-2265 w Asst: Marvene
###
 --- 

Dennis, what is dara's last name?
 --- 

FYI, early read out of Pakistan media reaction to strategic dialogue. Not bad overall at this point.
Pakistan Media:
Coverage of the final round of the U.S.-Pak Strategic Dialogue dominated the front pages of all newspapers and
hourly bulletins of TV networks on Friday morning. Media highlighted reports that the U.S. and Pakistan
sought "wide-ranging, long term and substantive partnership," and "established a policy steering group for
further talks on strategic issues." The signing of a letter of intent between the U.S. and Pakistan to help
reconstruction of priority roads in Malakand division also received prominent display. Secretary of Defense
Gates' meeting with his Pakistani counterpart, and his comments that the "U.S. wants to increase the military
funding of Pakistan" received coverage. Pak Army Chief General Kayani's remarks that the "military is willing
to forgo its requests for hardware to ensure that Pakistan's energy and economic needs are met" were also
reported. Reports that GOP and the opposition are not on same page regarding talks with the U.S. received
front-page display. The civilian nuclear deal issue made news as "The News," reported that the "FO seeks to
hide unease over nuclear snub" and "The Nation," reported on front-page that "U.S. affirms durable partnership
but no civilian N-deal." However Foreign Office spokesman's remarks, that the "government is optimistic about
a positive outcome" was also reported. Terming the U.S. commitment of $125 million for the power sector, as
"crucial," "The News," noted in its editorial that "it needs to be translated into action urgently." Its sister mass-
circulated Urdu daily, "Jang," however noted with a word of caution, that "we think that the present U.S.
overtures to woo Pakistan are not completely altruistic. It remains to be seen what Washington wants from
Islamabad." A prominent columnist, Ayesha Siddiqa noted in "Dawn," that "the U.S. might have realized that it
will have to listen to Pakistan and feel concerned about its inherent insecurity vis-a-vis India's role in
Afghanistan."
 --- 

pvervee
Sunday, March 14, 2010 12:29 PM
H
Re: How's the weekend gone?
On my way home. The conference was a big success. I met with Cherie Blair on the gender gap in cell phones -
technology that may be even be more tramsformative than microcredit. Phil was with GSMA for the release of their
study so we're going to figure out how we van get industry on board, etc. Cherie was involved in the GSMA study as well.
We'll both be at CGI retreat later this week where we'll raise it as well. She sends her love.
The conference referenced you over and over. Dr Mukwege personally thanked you for your leadership. Some ofthe
congolese women parliamentarians want to see if they can raise theirvoices to some good end the way the Liberians did.
We will see what we can do to help them.
DVF had an incredible awards ceremony last night. Our Haitian activist got one of the 50K prizes. DVF went on and on
about how your leadership was really responsible for the evening and what it represented.The awardees all mentioned
you. I talked to last night. I think we can get. him to fund college scolarships for afghan women.
Another awardee was one of our afghan women who's bldg schools.
I can't thank you enuf for Friday. I thought your legacy was manifested in every way.
BTW, Paul Charron was there last night and sends his best. He's such a good guy.
I'm heading home exhausted but gratified by what we've been able to do.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

-Does this work for you?
Statement by the Secretary
Murders in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico
Today the men and women of the Department of State are mourning the murder of three people connected to the
United States Consulate General in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. One American consulate employee was killed along with her
husband, and the husband of a Mexican employee was also killed. I offer my deepest sympathies to the family, loved
ones and colleagues of these victims. The safety and security of our personnel and their families in Mexico and at posts
around the world is always our highest priority. I have spoken with our Ambassador in Mexico and we are working with
the Government of Mexico to do everything necessary to protect our people and to ensure that the perpetrators of
these horrendous acts are brought to justice.
These appalling assaults on members of our own State Department family are, sadly, part of a growing tragedy besetting
many communities in Mexico. They underscore the imperative of our continued commitment to work closely with the
Government of President Calderon to cripple the influence of trafficking organizations at work in Mexico. This is a
responsibility we must shoulder together, particularly in border communities where strong bonds of history, culture,
and common interest bind the Mexican and the American people closely together.
 --- 

Thank you for the kind words! It meant so much to see you speak, and was wonderful to witness that room full of
energetic women and men clapping and nodding--a microcosm of the global movement. I loved the additional stories
you told, esp the women working in the fields and how they could shut down the economy on their own in one swoop.
I'm hard at work on Ireland -- feeling my nationalism stirring!
Thank you again for the email and the chance to join you in NY.
 --- 


 --- 

H: Assume you have seen the "Petraeus briefing story" or otherwise are familiar with its contents. In any case, here it is. It
was blazoned atop the Foreign Policy website, the most widely read site on international affairs daily, owned and
published by the Washington Post. Below the piece is a note by its writer about his sourcing that appeared on a small
website elsewhere. Also, I've included an article by Max Blumenthal, who spends his time on this issue and plans to move
to Israel for about 6-8 months to write a book. He tracks a lot of things that do not appear in the mainstream press. Sid
http://mideast.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/03/14/the_petraeus_briefing_biden_s_embarrassment_is_not_the_whole_sto
ry
The Petraeus briefing: Biden's embarrassment
is not the whole story
Posted By Mark Perry 4Saturday, March 13, 2010 -
On Jan. 16, two days after a killer earthquake hit Haiti, a team of senior military officers from the U.S. Central Command
(responsible for overseeing American security interests in the Middle East), arrived at the Pentagon to brief Joint Chiefs of
Staff Chairman Adm. Michael Mullen on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The team had been dispatched by CENTCOM
commander Gen. David Petraeus to underline his growing worries at the lack of progress in resolving the issue. The 33-
slide, 45-minute PowerPoint briefing stunned Mullen. The briefers reported that there was a growing perception among
Arab leaders that the U.S. was incapable of standing up to Israel, that CENTCOM's mostly Arab constituency was losing
faith in American promises, that Israeli intransigence on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was jeopardizing U.S. standing in
the region, and that Mitchell himself was (as a senior Pentagon officer later bluntly described it) "too old, too slow ... and
too late."
The January Mullen briefing was unprecedented. No previous CENTCOM commander had ever expressed himself on
what is essentially a political issue; which is why the briefers were careful to tell Mullen that their conclusions followed
from a December 2009 tour of the region where, on Petraeus's instructions, they spoke to senior Arab leaders.
"Everywhere they went, the message was pretty humbling," a Pentagon officer familiar with the briefing says. "America
was not only viewed as weak, but its military posture in the region was eroding." But Petraeus wasn't finished: two days
after the Mullen briefing, Petraeus sent a paper to the White House requesting that the West Bank and Gaza (which, with
Israel, is a part of the European Command -- or EUCOM), be made a part of his area of operations. Petraeus's reason
was straightforward: with U.S. troops deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan, the U.S. military had to be perceived by Arab
leaders as engaged in the region's most troublesome conflict.
[UPDATE: A senior military officer denied Sunday that Petraeus sent a paper to the White House.
"CENTCOM did have a team brief the CJCS on concerns revolving around the Palestinian issue, and CENTCOM did
propose a UCP change, but to CJCS, not to the WH," the officer said via email. "GEN Petraeus was not certain what
might have been conveyed to the WH (if anything) from that brief to CJCS."
(UCP means "unified combatant command," like CENTCOM; CJCS refers to Mullen; and WH is the White House.)]
The Mullen briefing and Petraeus's request hit the White House like a bombshell. While Petraeus's request that
CENTCOM be expanded to include the Palestinians was denied ("it was dead on arrival," a Pentagon officer confirms),
the Obama administration decided it would redouble its efforts -- pressing Israel once again on the settlements issue,
sending Mitchell on a visit to a number of Arab capitals and dispatching Mullen for a carefully arranged meeting with the
chief of the Israeli General Staff, Lt. General Gabi Ashkenazi. While the American press speculated that Mullen's trip
focused on Iran, the JCS Chairman actually carried a blunt, and tough, message on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict: that
Israel had to see its conflict with the Palestinians "in a larger, regional, context" -- as having a direct impact on America's
status in the region. Certainly, it was thought, Israel would get the message.
Israel didn't. When Vice President Joe Biden was embarrassed by an Israeli announcement that the Netanyahu
government was building 1,600 new homes in East Jerusalem, the administration reacted. But no one was more outraged
than Biden who, according to the Israeli daily Yedioth Ahronoth, engaged in a private, and angry, exchange with the
Israeli Prime Minister. Not surprisingly, what Biden told Netanyahu reflected the importance the administration attached to
Petraeus's Mullen briefing: "This is starting to get dangerous for us," Biden reportedly told Netanyahu. "What you're doing
here undermines the security of our troops who are fighting in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. That endangers us and it
endangers regional peace." Yedioth Ahronoth went on to report: "The vice president told his Israeli hosts that since many
people in the Muslim world perceived a connection between Israel's actions and US policy, any decision about
construction that undermines Palestinian rights in East Jerusalem could have an impact on the personal safety of
American troops fighting against Islamic terrorism." The message couldn't be plainer: Israel's intransigence could cost
American lives.
There are important and powerful lobbies in America: the NRA, the American Medical Association, the lawyers -- and the
Israeli lobby. But no lobby is as important, or as powerful, as the U.S. military. While commentators and pundits might
reflect that Joe Biden's trip to Israel has forever shifted America's relationship with its erstwhile ally in the region, the real
break came in January, when David Petraeus sent a briefing team to the Pentagon with a stark warning: America's
relationship with Israel is important, but not as important as the lives of America's soldiers. Maybe Israel gets the message
now.
Mark Perry's newest book is Talking To Terrorists
http://warincontext.org/2olo/o3/14/israel-is-putting-american-liyes-at-risk/
My piece on the briefing of Admiral Mullen by CENTCOM senior officers has occasioned a great deal of comment, as
well as some skepticism: how accurate is the account? Was it told to me by direct participants in the briefing? Is
there any basis for imagining that Petraeus has any kind of hidden agenda, whether that is a desire to expand
CENTCOM — or even hostility towards Israel.
I won't name my sources, even though it's clear to people in the Pentagon — and certainly to General Petraeus — who
they are. Was I told of the briefing by the briefers themselves? I will only say that there were four people in the
briefing — the two briefers, Admiral Mullen, and Admiral Mullen's primary adviser on the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict. I know two of the people involved in the briefing. Whether or not they are my sources is something for the
reader to determine. The account is not only accurate, it's a precis of what actually happened. There is a lot more to
it. The White House, State Department and Pentagon have not denied the account, and for good reason: it's true.
Is there any basis for imagining that Petraeus has any kind of hidden agenda in ordering the briefing?
I have been reporting on the American military for thirty years. My work on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Four Stars, is
the authoritative account on the subject. I have deeply rooted contacts in the military that go back thirty years. I
have never met a senior military officer whom I do not admire. There is no greater insult than to believe that General
Petraeus or any other senior American military officer would use the lives of American soldiers as a lever to enhance
their own political future. My sense is that General Petraeus neither likes nor dislikes Israel: but he loves his country
and he wants to protect our soldiers. The current crisis in American relations with Israel is not a litmus test of
General Petraeus's loyalty to Israel, but of his, and our, concern for those Americans in uniform in the Middle East.
It is, perhaps, a sign of the depth of "the Biden crisis" that every controversy of this type seems to get translated into
whether or not America and its leaders are committed to Israel's security. This isn't about Israel's security, it's about
our security.
http://maxblumenthal.com/2010/03/pastor-hagee-and-
netanyahus-lovefest-on-eve-of-bidens-arrival-in-israel/
Netanyahu and Pastor Hagee's Lovefest on Eve of Biden's
Arrival in Israel
On 03.09.10, By Max
(Videos recorded by Rachel Tabachnick; more videos coming shortly.)
Vice President Joe Biden was greeted in Jerusalem with the announcement that the Israeli Interior Ministry approved the
construction of 1600 new homes in Occupied East Jerusalem contrary to U.S. wishes and complicating Biden's mission to
help jump start the peace process. But Biden should have known that Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu intended to upset his
plans by Netanyahu's appearance with John Hagee.
The day after a series of talks between US Special Envoy for the Middle East George Mitchell and Netanyahu, and a day
before Biden's arrival, Netanyahu appeared onstage with Pastor John Hagee in Jerusalem. The occasion was Hagee's
Night To Honor Israel, an event the far-right Texas-based preacher arranged to tout his ministry's millions in donations to
Israeli organizations and to level bellicose rhetoric against Israel's perceived enemies.
At the gathering, Hagee called Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad "the Hitler of the Middle East" and denounced
the Goldstone Report as "character assassination by an unbiased and uninformed committee."
Netanyahu welcomed the crowd of 1000 American evangelicals to Jerusalem, a city he described as "the undivided,
eternal capitol of the Jewish people. Then, he told them, "I salute you! The Jewish people salute you!" He used the rest of
his speech to call for "tough, biting sanctions" against Iran that "bite deep into its energy sector."
Hagee and Netanyahu appear together on stage:
r--
X
In the audience were top-level members of the Israeli government, from Ambassador Michael Oren to Jerusalem Mayor
Nir Barkat to Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon. Also present was Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, the chief rabbi of the illegal
West Bank settlement of Efrat who gained notoriety for lobbying President Bill Clinton to pardon his friend, fugitive
billionaire Marc Rich. Ayalon had stirred controversy days before when he refused to meet with a US congressional
delegation brought to Israel by the progressive Jewish group J Street.
Part One of Hagee's speech:
X
Part Two.
X
Pastor Hagee in Jerusalem 3/8/10 (Part II) from Max J Blumenthal on Vimeo.
Hagee's ceremony featured a 15-minute film highlighting the recipients of donations from John Hagee Ministries that
totaled $58 million since 2001. The recipients included Jewish settlements from the West Bank like Gush Etzion and
Shomron, which was involved in promoting an "Obama Hilltop project" that promoted more settlement building and
compared Obama to Pharoah. Hagee also announced funding for a pressure group run by the settlers evacuated from
Gush Katif in Gaza in 2005. During Israel's assault on Gaza in 2009, a group of Gush Katif residents lobbied the Israel
government to allow them to resettle the Palestinian coastal region.
Who is Hagee funding in Israel?
X
Who Is Haoee Funding In Israel? from Max Blumenthal on Vimeo.
The most notable of Hagee's funding recipients was an organization called Im Tirtzu. A student representative of this
group appeared in the film to thank Hagee for "help[ing] us to ensure that students in Israel are on the right path, the path
of Zionism, the love of Israel, the path of solidarity." Another student called for "the second revolution in Israel."
In February, Im Tirtzu funding a smear campaign against former Knesset member and New Israel Fund Director Naomi
Chazan that included posters caricaturing her with a horn on her head. The group misleadingly accused the New Israel
Fund of bankrolling 16 human rights organizations that contributed documentation to the Goldstone Report.
The smear campaign led to unsuccessful legislation in the Knesset designed to further cripple already marginalized Israeli
human rights groups. Meanwhile, the Jerusalem Post fired Chazan as a columnist without explanation. Gideon Levy, a
columnist for Ha'aretz, called Im Tirtzu "a McCarthyite movement" for its attacks on Chazan.
Although CUFI attempted to distance itself from Im Tirtzu's campaign, the organization's appearance during CUFI's
Jerusalem ceremony suggested that Hagee would continue to provide it with funding well into the future.
Republican Senator John McCain repudiated the endorsement of Hagee during his 2008 presidential campaign after
Hagee's statements describing the Holocaust as a fulfillment of divine prophecy came to light. Hagee has also said that
he believed the anti-Christ was "partially Jewish, as was Adolph Hitler." However, none of Hagee's comments have
deterred Israeli government officials from embracing him or accepting his millions in annual charity.
During Hagee's speech, he made no secret of his support for the illegal settlement enterprise that has been the source of
difficulties between the US and Israel. "The settlements are not the problem," he boomed from the podium. "The problem
is the refusal of Arab leaders to respect the right of Jewish people to live anywhere in the Middle East."
Hagee received a rousing ovation from the crowd and the Israeli government officials seated beside the podium when he
proclaimed, "World leaders do not have the authority to tell Israel and the Jewish people what they can and cannot do in
the city of Jerusalem. They don't have the authority to tell them what they can and cannot build, who can and and cannot
live there."
The following day, on March 9, Vice President Joseph Biden arrived in Israel to meet with Netanyahu and officials from
the Palestinian Authority. He told reporters after touching down that he saw "a moment of real opportunity."
 --- 

Outreach Center
From Al Quds should be the front piece of all our presentations I
 --- 

Madam Secretary, .
Thanks so much for the experience of a life time. It is my honor to work for you and learn from you.
See you this morning,
Best,
Ellen
 --- 

I think coming out in next few hours so prepare W.IC.
Cdm
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Friday, March 26, 2010 6:33 PM
Mills, Cheryl D
Fw: Wynn Resorts as Sponsor
 --- 

I am traveling outside of the country, with intermittent access to my email. If you need to reach me urgently please
contact Nora Toiv, Toivnf@state.gov, 202-647-8633 or Joanne Laszczych, laszczychj@state.gov, 202-647-5548.
Thank you
cdm
 --- 

That was great, thank you for doing
 --- 


 --- 

Taking off
 --- 

Be
Will call after 1pm - on calls until llam to get legislation
 --- 

Madame Secretary, April Ryan asked me to pass along to you that Dorothy Height has taken a turn for the worse and is
not expected to survive long.
Pi
 --- 

Thx pj.
Adding philippe too cause a joint draft statement is in the works.
 --- 

Want to let you know about an ops alert we just got, will keep u updated:
Ahmed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, younger brother of UAE President Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan, is presumed dead following
a glider crash in a Moroccan lake on Friday. Sources close to embassy report UAE authorities will make the formal
announcement after the conclusion of a significant horse racing event in Dubai later on March 27.
 --- 

• aClose Window
• Print this lop_ag_
From The Sunday Times
March 28, 2010
It's over: MPs say the special relationship with
S is dead
Winston Churchill, Franklin D Roosevelt and Josef Stalin
Michael Smith
BRITAIN'S special relationship with the US forged by Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt in the second world
war -- no longer exists, says a committee of influential MPs.
Instead, America's relationship with Britain is no more special than with its other main allies, according to a report by the
Commons foreign affairs committee published today.
The report also warns that the perception of the UK after the Iraq war as America's "subservient poodle" has been highly
damaging to Britain's reputation and interests around the world. The MPs conclude that British prime ministers have to
learn to be less deferential to US presidents and be "willing to say no" to America.
The report, entitled Global Security: UK-US Relations, says Britain's relationship with America is "extremely close and
valuable" in a number of areas, particularly intelligence co-operation. However, it adds that the use of the phrase special
relationship, in its historical sense, "is potentially misleading and we recommend that its use should be avoided".
It does not reflect the "ever-evolving" relationship between the two countries and raises unrealistic expectations, the MPs
say.
"Over the longer term, the UK is unlikely to be able to influence the US to the extent it has in the past," the committee
adds.
In an apparent rebuke to Tony Blair and his relationship with President George W Bush, the report says there are "many
lessons" to be learnt from Britain's political approach towards the US over Iraq.
"The perception that the British government was a subservient poodle to the US administration is widespread both among
the British public and overseas," the MPs say. "This perception, whatever its relation to reality, is deeply damaging to the
reputation and interests of the UK."
While the relationship between the American president and the British prime minister was an important part of dealings
between the two countries, the cabinet and parliament also had a role to play. "The UK needs to be less deferential and
more willing to say no to the US on those issues where the two countries' interests and values diverge," the MPs say.
They are also critical of the US use of extraordinary rendition and torture. The report calls for a comprehensive review of
the use by the CIA of British bases, such as that on the Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia, to carry out extraordinary
rendition.
"The issues relating to rendition through Diego Garcia to which we have previously drawn attention raise disturbing
questions about the uses to which US bases on British territory are put", the MPs say.
They express regret at "considerable restraints" on the ability of both the government and parliament to scrutinise US
activities carried out on British territory.
"We recommend that the government should establish a comprehensive review of the current arrangements governing
US military use of facilities within the UK and in British overseas territories." The review should "identify shortcomings in
the current system of scrutiny and oversight ... and report to parliament on proposals to remedy these".
The report also demands a statement from the government on the implications of the Court of Appeal judgment regarding
the alleged collusion of MI5 in the torture of Binyam Mohamed, a British resident.
Last month the court ordered the government to release evidence from American intelligence reports which showed that
MI5 was aware of the torture.
Senior US officials subsequently suggested that releasing such evidence might prevent the US from sharing some
intelligence with Britain.
Contact our advertising team for advertising and sponsorship in Times Online, The Times and The Sunday Times, or
place your advertisement.
Times Online Services: Dating I Jobs I Property Search I Used Cars I Holidays I Births lvlarriages, Deaths I
Subscrlptions I E-paper
News International associated websites: Milkround
Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Ltd.
This service is provided on Times Newspapers' standard Terms and Conditions. Please read our Privacy Policy.To inquire
about a licence to reproduce material from Times Online, The Times or The Sunday Times, click hece.This website is
published by a member of the News International Group. News International Limited, 1 Virginia St,-London E98 1XY, is
the holding company for the News International group and is registered in England No 81701. VAT number GB 243 8054
69.
 --- 

Here's where things stand, from Jeffrey:
Called Davut when efforts to get Sinir failed (on plane prob). Davut confirmed substance of Jake S's comments to me,
said he Davut had one hour to get statement out to meet TU press cycle, and said Namik Tan would contact me asap
with proposed text. That said Davut then described substance of what he thought should be in it (he also was not clear
on whether it to be a joint statement, coordinated sep statements or just a TU statement that we'd OK and thus
support once out). However he did say he wanted to put in statement
We went back and forth on that and both conluded Namik and I would work out. Will get back
asap. Jim
 --- 


 --- 

As I mentioned last week, I was on a panel at the Brussels forum with Lady Ashton (who insisted everyone call her
Cathy), Estonian president Toomas lives, and Senator Voinovich. Ashton and I essentially reinforced each other at every
turn and presented a very positive vision of US-EU partnership. She has scored some significant victories lately, most
notably that development will be included in the European Action Service (EAS) rather than sitting at a separate desk
(the formula we are seeking rather than the DFID formula). EU defense staff will also be included in the EAS. Indeed,
Ashton chairs the European Council whenever the 27 foreign ministers, development ministers, or defense ministers
meet -- the ultimate integrated frame. She also has control over a number of the smaller development and state-
building budgets, though I gather the biggest development fund is still in dispute between her and the development
commissioner. Apparently, however, the enlargement commissioner took his cues from her on strategy and policy and
then presented his implementation plans to the Council, which is the role she wants. We should be able to build on the
way the EU is organizing in pushing pushing our own integrated frame here.
I hope everything goes well on Ottawa and NY. Bob Hormats and I will send a note on other aspects of Brussels forum,
where US was well represented. AM
 --- 

PVerveer
Sunday, March 28, 2010 9:03 PM
Fwd: FW: Recruit Afghan women to sell war to Europeans: CIA report
Interesting.
Recruit Afghan women to sell war to Europeans: CIA report
WASHINGTON, March 27, 2010 (AFP) - A CIA expert has called for recruiting Afghan women in a public
relations bid to persuade skeptical Europeans to support the NATO-led war effort, according to a document
leaked Friday.
"Afghan women could serve as ideal messengers in humanizing" the mission for European audiences,
particularly in France, according to the CIA analysis, posted on WikiLeaks, a whistleblower website.
The views of Afghan women would carry special weight as they could express "their aspirations for the future,
and their fears of a Taliban victory," it said.
The Central Intelligence Agency declined to confirm or deny if the document was genuine. But WikiLeaks has
previously posted government and corporate documents that were later verified.
The report by a CIA expert on "strategic communications" and State Department analysts of public opinion
warned that popular support for the war in Europe was weak and could easily collapse, citing the recent fall of
the Dutch government over the issue.
"The tone of previous debate suggests that a spike in French or German casualties or in Afghan civilian
casualties could become a tipping point in converting passive opposition into active calls for immediate
withdrawal," it said.
The analysis, dated March 11, suggested public relations strategies to drum up support for the war in Germany
and France, which maintain the third and fourth largest troop deployments in Afghanistan.
"Outreach initiatives that create media opportunities for Afghan women to share their stories with French,
German, and other European women could help to overcome pervasive skepticism among women in Western
Europe toward the ISAF (International Security Assistance Force) mission," it said.
Public relations efforts could "tap into acute French concern for civilians and refugees," the report said,
suggesting highlighting polls that show most Afghans support the presence of coalition troops.
Such an approach could stress the potential dangers facing Afghan civilians if NATO-led troops were defeated
and "leverage French (and other European) guilt for abandoning them."
"The prospect of the Taliban rolling back hard-won progress on girls I- education could provoke French
indignation, become a rallying point for France's largely secular public, and give voters a reason to support a
good and necessary cause despite casualties."
For German audiences, marketing efforts should underline how Afghans are reportedly optimistic about the
NATO mission and how an international retreat would damage Germany's interests.
"For example, messages that illustrate how a defeat in Afghanistan could heighten Germany's exposure to
terrorism, opium, and refugees might help to make the war more salient to skeptics," it said.
The report also suggested taking advantage of President Barack Obama's popularity in France and Germany,
arguing that appeals from the US president on the importance of the allied role in the war could have a positive
effect.
The memorandum is titled: "Afghanistan: Sustaining West European Support for the NATO-led Mission -- Why
Counting on Apathy Might Not Be Enough."
Media Analysis and Watch Center
USSTRATCOM Foreign Media Analysis Program
SOS International Ltd.
www.sosiltd.com
 --- 

Will do. 111 talk to Ryabkov in the morning. Bill
 --- 

Will follow up.
 --- 

Jim concurs in the memo recommendations.
 --- 

ok
 --- 

Bombings in Moscow
Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this morning's bombings in Moscow, their families, and all the people
of Russia. This brutal assault on innocent civilians is another reminder that terrorism is a threat to peace-loving people
everywhere and must be met with unwavering resolve. I will offer my personal condolences to Foreign Minister Lavrov
later today in Ottawa. Together with our G8 partners, we will discuss how to improve international counterterrorism
coordination and cooperation. I was in Moscow earlier this month, and I know the resilience and determination of the
Russian people. The United States stands with them today and everyday in solidarity against violent extremism in all its
forms.
 --- 

Finally.
For wjc
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Below is the Iran section of the chair's statement from Trieste. There is strong language on human rights; is that what
Miliband was referring to? The language on the nuclear issue reflects where we were last summer -- still on the first
track.
Iran
We are concerned about the aftermath of Iranian Presidential elections. We fully respect the sovereignty of Iran. At the
same time, we deplore post-electoral violence, which led to the loss of lives of Iranian civilians. We express our solidarity
with those who have suffered repression while peacefully demonstrating and urge Iran to respect fundamental human
rights, including freedom of expression, as ensured by the international treaties it has ratified. The crisis should be
settled soon through democratic dialogue and peaceful means on the basis of the rule of law. We call on the Iranian
government to guarantee that the will of the Iranian people is reflected in the electoral process.
We remain committed to finding a diplomatic solution to the issue of Iran's nuclear program and support renewed
efforts to that effect, such as the readiness of the U.S. to enter into direct talks and the invitation from China, France,
Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States to Iran to restart negotiations, as well as the constructive
involvement of other G8 partners in the process. We stress the need for unity of action on the basis of agreed policy. We
sincerely hope that Iran will seize this opportunity to give diplomacy a chance to find a negotiated solution to the
nuclear issue. At the same time we remain deeply concerned over proliferation risks posed by Iran's nuclear programme.
We recognise that Iran has the right to a civilian nuclear programme, but that comes with the responsibility to restore
confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of its nuclear activities. We strongly urge Iran to cooperate fully with the
IAEA and to comply with the relevant UNSC Resolutions.
Our meeting on the margin of the United Nations General Assembly opening week next September, will be an occasion
for the G8 to take stock of the situation.
 --- 

Just the stuff from yesterday. Maybe one of the cable nets or talking heads made a to do about it.
But I'm surprised because it didn't seem anyone here cared, was all Canada
 --- 

I haven't seen anything real in our press.
Original 'Message
 --- 

I really like Rick
See b/I in case you get ques at press conf re urgent needs being crowded out by recovery
Cdm
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 7:59 AM
H
Fw: Did u hear anything from F
-1
Fyi
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 9:06 AM
H: NI fallout continues. Sid
New blow for Conservative alliance with UUP
as assembly member quits party
Alan McFarland follows MP Lady Hermon in resigning from Ulster Unionists to sit as independent
• Henry McDonaid, Ireland correspondent
• gi,;ardian.co.uk, Wednesday 31 March 2010 09.48 BST
The ConseNatives' alliance with the Ulster Unionists has sustained a second blow in North Down after last week's
resignation of the sitting MP Lady Hermon.
Assembly member and former army major Alan McFarland announced today that he was leaving the UUP in protest at its
pact with the Tories.
It is expected McFarland will now work for Herman's re-election as an independent against the official UUP-Tory
candidate.
A UUP statement said the timing of McFarland's announcement was "disappointing". He has been a UUP member of the
Stormont assembly for 12 years and was once a loyal ally of Lord Trimble, Nprthem Irelard's former first minister.
Trimble has been one of the driving forces behind the UUP-Conservative alliance.
Last night McFarland resigned his membership of the party and said he would now sit as an independent member of the
assembly.
"With the recent confirmation of candidates, including the imposition of a Conservative candidate in my own North Down
constituency,•it is clear that the party is determined to continue down the Conservative road," he said in a statement.
"I do not wish to join them. I am sorry to leave a party that contains many good friends, and greatly regret that events have
developed in the way they have."
Last week Hermon, the MP for North Down, said she would run in the general election as an independent unionist.
In a statement, the Ulster Unionist party thanked McFarland for his service, but said the "electoral pact has the potential to
transform politics in Northern Ireland in a manner not previously witnessed" in Ulster.
 --- 

And the speech was excellent.
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Team would like to release following statement. Okay by you?
MEDIA NOTE
Joint Statement on the Upcoming Sudan National Elections
Following is the text of a joint statement by U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas
Store, and United Kingdom Foreign Secretary David Miliband on the upcoming national elections in Sudan.
Begin Text:
National elections in Sudan this month will represent a major milestone in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that
ended Sudan's twenty-two year civil war, and are an important opportunity for the people of Sudan to participate in the
political process.
We urge all parties in Sudan to work urgently to ensure that elections can proceed peacefully and credibly in April. We
are deeply concerned by reports of continued administrative and logistical challenges, as well as restrictions on political
freedoms. We call on the Government of Sudan, the National Elections Commission, and all political parties to engage in
further dialogue to resolve practical obstacles, procedural impediments, and address allegations of intimidation,
harassment, and safety concerns, and other legitimate concerns raised by various political parties. We continue to urge
the parties to improve conditions on the ground in Darfur and create a secure environment conducive to Darfuri
participation.
Irrespective of the outcome of elections, it is essential that work continues and is accelerated to meet remaining CPA
deadlines. Progress is needed urgently to complete border demarcation, to establish the commissions that will
supervise the referenda for the South and Abyei, to conduct popular consultations in Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan,
and to negotiate sustainable post-CPA arrangements in areas such as wealth-sharing, citizenship and assets, and
liabilities.
We reiterate our commitment to ensure that the referenda must happen on schedule and that their outcomes need to
be respected. It is time to redouble efforts to achieve these ends. We urge all parties in Sudan and all regional and
international partners to work together to achieve the peaceful future that the people of Sudan deserve.
 --- 

I did. I had been told it was a wet kiss to the NSC. It wasn't. You and Gates look good.
What did you think?
 --- 


 --- 

In case u see hbj
 --- 

HOUSTON — (March 31, 2010) - Former First Lady Barbara Bush was discharged Wednesday from The Methodist Hospital
in Houston after undergoing a series of tests. Doctors believe Mrs. Bush, 84, may have had a mild relapse of her Graves
disease, a thyroid condition for which she was treated in 1989. As a result, her physicians at Methodist have adjusted
her medication. Upon discharge she was alert, talkative and appeared to be getting stronger as she prepared to return
home.
Mrs. Bush arrived Saturday at the hospital, where she received a number of tests including blood tests and imaging
studies. Just over a year ago Mrs. Bush received a replacement aortic valve at Methodist, which doctors said is working
very well.
Mrs. Bush is expected to make a full recovery and should soon return to her normal activities.
 --- 

This is further background on the Mashabane call,
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 4:28 PM
H: In case you haven't seen this in today's FT. Sid
http://www.ft.com/cms/s/O/df53a396-3c2a-11df-b40c-00144feabdc0.html
• Skip to main content, accesskev 's"
• Homecage, accesskev '1'
Financial Times FT.com
pOMMENT
:Analysis
• Close
RI
US foreign policy: aiting on a sun king
By Edward Luce and Daniel Dombey
Published: March 30 2010 22:22 I Last updated: March 30 2010 22:22
For better or for worse, Washington has grown
used to the fact that PgIrack Obama runs the
most centralised — or "White House-centric" —
administration since Richard Nixon. When Nixon
wanted foreign policy advice, everyone knew
where he got it from: Henry 'Kissinger, variously
his national security adviser and secretary of
state.
In contrast, Mr Obama has no big foreign policy
strategist. Even insiders give different answers
when asked to whom he turns for advice on the
big international questions. But almost all agree
with the following observation. "The truth is that
President Obama is his own Henry Kissinger —
no one else plays that role," says a senior official.
"Every administration reflects the personality of
the president. This president wants all the trains
Barack Obama at the Great Wall of China last year. Unlike his
predecessor Richard Nixon, who turned to Henry Kissinger for
advice, the US president has no big foreign policy strategist
routed through the Oval Office."
Fifteen months after he took office, the character and structure of Mr Obama's foreign policy machinery is still evolving.
But from interviews with dozens of insiders and outsiders, including senior officials both authorised and unauthorised to
speak, and three former national security advisers, it is clear the buck not only stops with, but often floats for quite a long
time around, Mr Obama himself.
Foreigners have complained about the tendency of his domestic agenda to crowd out the international one — the passage
last week of healthcare reform was greeted with an audible sigh of relief among US allies. But within foreign policy itself,
his centralised structure can also result in many issues being left on the back burner awaiting presidential attention, say
critics.
"On the positive side, we have a very conscientious president who takes advice widely," says the official. "On the debit
side, for all the president's intelligence, Barack Obama came to office with very little experience. He just doesn't have
much depth on some issues.'
The core of Mr Obama's foreign policy machinery is in the White House-based National Security Council, which advises
the president and co-ordinates activities across an increasingly complex alphabet soup of Washington departments,
military commands and intelligence agencies. The most widely questioned link in the chain is Jim Jones, whom, to many
people's surprise, Mr Obama brought in as his national security adviser.
Only briefly acquainted with Mr Obama beforehand, General Jones, a retired four-star marine corps general, shows little
interest in running the "inter-agency" process — a key part of the job. Somewhat unconventionally, Gen Jones travels
frequently and is thus often out of town. Unusually, it is Mr Obama himself who usually chairs the weekly National Security
Council, known as the "principals meeting", not Gen Jones.
Rahm Emanuel, Mr Obama's chief of staff, is also a key part of it. "If you were to ask me who the real national security
adviser is, I would say there were three or four, of whom Rehm is one and of which Gen Jones is probably the least
important," says another official.
Anyone who has dealt with Gen Jones speaks highly of his matter-of-factness, his geniality and the respect many foreign
governments have for him — Pakistan and Israel among them. But as he himself admitted rather disarmingly last year, he
does not have a taste for bureaucracy. Speaking at the Atlantic Council, a think-tank where he previously worked, Gen
Jones provoked laughter when he said: "I fondly remember [the Atlantic Council] as a place where people actually did
what you asked them to do. In my new role I'm finding out that an order is a basis for negotiation."
The lack of a strong national security adviser has created recurring difficulties. Perhaps the best example is the Arab-
Israeli peace process, which Mr Obama launched on his second day in office when he appointed Geproe Mitphspil as his
envoy. Three months later, Mr Obama insisted Benjamin Netanyahu freeze all settlements activity in order to boost Arab
confidence in the talks.
In a heated ;34.16NA(dpyin the ,Clvg
li..0f7;ce. last May, in which Mr Netanyahu refused to accede to Mr Obama's demand, the
only officials present were Mr Emanuel and David Axelrod, senior adviser to Mr Obama in office and during the campaign.
Gen Jones was not there. The fallout put the talks in abeyance and damped high Arab hopes for Mr Obama.
"The question is, which bright spark advised the president to demand a settlements freeze without working out what the
next step should be when Netanyahu inevitably said 'No'?" says Leslie Gelb, an official in the Carter administration and
former head of the Council on Foreign Relations. "Why wasn't George Mitchell in the room? Where was Jones?"
Mr Obama's character is also stamped on the inter-agency process, set up and managed by Tom Donilon, deputy
national security adviser. The nitty-gritty of foreign policy-making is done at these frequent "deputies' meetings", which
can sometimes consume four to six hours a day.
Described by one insider as "the most powerful man in the White House whose name isn't widely known", Mr Donilon,
who was an official in the Clinton administration, is the man who keeps Mr Obama's trains running on time. And there are
a lot of trains. Last year, Mr Donilon held 270 deputies meetings — a workload described as "clinically insane" by a former
senior diplomat under Bill Clinton.
But as time goes on, it is becoming streamlined — now taking up roughly two to three hours a day, say officials. "People
forget that we inherited two wars, terrorism threats, and perhaps the biggest single eight-year decline [George W. Bush's
two terms] in America's power and reputation in our history," says a senior official. "It took time to put in place a process
that could deal with the very complex decisions we had to take."
Also the organiser of Mr Obama's 9.30arn national security briefing, Mr Donilon reinstated the paper trails needed to
prevent intra-governmental anarchy, using the model devised by Brent Scowcroft, national security adviser to George
Bush senior and Gerald Ford. Vice-president Joe Biden's team was also incorporated to prevent the kind of "parallel
process" Dick Cheney used to circumvent the bureaucracy under George W. Bush.
"If you look for the 2002 or 2003 meeting where the decision to go to war in iraq was taken, you cannot find it," says the
senior official. "By getting the process right, we are improving the quality of decisions."
The deputies' ties go back years. For example, the families of Mr Don;Ion and Jim Steinberg, deputy secretary of state,
often go on holiday together. Mr Donilon's wife, Cathy Russell, is chief of staff to Jill Biden, the vice-president's wife. Mr
Steinberg's wife, Sherburne Abbott, is deputy to John Holdren, Mr Obama's chief scientific adviser.
All those who regularly attend, including Michele Flournoy, a senior Pentagon official, and Susan Rice, the US
ambassador to the United Nations, have known each other since at least 1993, when they started off in the Clinton
administration. This is just as well, since they spend half their lives together: "A lot of work gets done in that group," says
Ms Flournoy. "Sometimes it feels like shovelling coal to keep the fires going."
The refurbished machinery was perhaps most in evidence during the build-up to Mr Obama's decision in December to
send another 30,000 US troops to Afghanistan — a journey that took four months and involved him in 40 hours of Oval
Office meetings.
But the very diligence of the process crowded out Mr Obama's time to focus on other crises — of which there are many.
"Time is the most precious commodity a president has," says a former national security adviser. "On average he is only
going to have 45 minutes a day for foreign policy, so you want to make sure it is well spent."
The widely expected departure of Gen Jones before the end of the year has also created rivalries within the engine room.
Those who are thought to have ambitions to replace him include Mr Steinberg, Ms Rice, Mr Donilon and Denis
McDonough, NSC chief of staff and the foreign policy official who is personally closest to Mr Obama. Although all are
widely respected, none is considered a big strategic thinker in the Kissinger or Scowcroft mould.
Described by Mr Gelb as Mr Obama's "Lord High Executioner", Mr McDonough "has appended himself to the Chicago
crowd", says another official. Mr McDonough's widely feared role highlights some of the contradictions of Mr Obama's
foreign policy apparatus.
Once an adviser to former Senate majority leader Tom Deschle, Mr McDonough was frequently at Mr Obama's side
during the campaign. Insiders describe him as the "enforcer" and as the keeper of "message discipline", a key element of
any campaign but something that can drastically slow the wheels of government.
"McDonough is the guy from the campaign and the one who plays basketball with the president — they're very close," says
an official. "Instead of Jim Jones telling McDonough what the president thinks, it is the other way round."
Indeed, if Mr Obama's highly centralised foreign policy machine had a face, it would be Mr McDonough's. "Donilon has
been perceived to make the process inclusive and give everyone a seat at the table," says David Rothkopf, a former
Clinton official and scholar on the NSC. "Fairly or not, McDonough has been perceived as representing a process that
was taking place in another room, among the inner circle, at a table to which most weren't invited."
Mr Obama has built a machine in which all roads lead to and from him. On the minus side, that means a lot of lower-level
meetings without decisions. It also means neglecting issues that cannot be squeezed into his diary, such as trade policy,
which continues to drift; or relations with India, which are unnecessarily tense.
And it means that the fingerprints of Mr Obama's political inner circle are detected by the rumour mill even when they are
absent, such as on the president's decision to begin the rog,,g: witsirawal from anistan. in July 2011 — a
recommendation that came from Robert Gates, secretary of defence.
On the plus side. Mr Obama has a sharp learning curve, which means his administration continues to evolve. On the plus
side also, if it has to be White House-centric, it is perhaps better with him as the Sun King than, say, Nixon or George W.
Bush.
"At the end of each meeting, the president summarises what everyone has said and the arguments each has made with a
real lawyer's clarity," says a participant to the NSC principals meeting, which includes Mr Gates and Mrs Clinton. "When
the president finally makes a decision, it is with the full facts and usually shows a high calibre of judgment."
When Mr Obama makes a decision, that is.
STATE AND DEFENCE DEPARTMENTS
An 'alliance of the unsackables' finds it can confront the inner circle
If there is a caveat to the depiction of the Obama administration as White House-centric, it is in the
alliance between Hillary Clinton and Robert Gates, the president's secretaries of state and defence.
Mrs Clinton has proved one of the surprises of Barack Obama's tenure, forging a strong working
relationship with her former rival and establishing herself as his chief foreign policy spokesperson
internationally — if not at home, where Mr Obama's inner circle often seems to monopolise the explaining.
Mr Gates, who recently decided to stay for at least another year, is seen as unsackable, not least for the
credibility he lends on issues ranging from missile defence to Guantanamo Bay and Afghanistan. As a
holdover from the Bush administration, his national security bona fides are hard to dispute. It is no
coincidence that Mrs Clinton is probably the only other unsackable cabinet member.
The combination has made itself felt in some of the administration's most significant debates, notably on
Afghanistan, where both successfully urged the deployment of more troops.
"Gates and Clinton happen to like each other, which no one really predicted," says one official, who notes
that while the traditional role of the NSC is to "play referee" between the state and defence departments,
it is as often nowadays a combination of the two against the White House. This is very different from how
it worked when Donald Rumsfeld and Colin Powell held those positions.
"We work together well," Mr Gates said at an appearance with Mrs Clinton on CNN last year. "I think it
starts with, frankly, based on my experience, the secretary of defence being willing to acknowledge that
the secretary of state is the principal spokesperson for United States foreign policy."
Their outlooks often overlap. From the Pentagon, Mr Gates has long called for more US spending on
diplomacy. As chief diplomat, Mrs Clinton has adopted a muscular approach. On Iran, both favour tough
sanctions; on Russia, both have sought to reassure Moscow's neighbours even while improving relations
with the Kremlin.
But for all their workmanlike co-operation, there is no escaping the fact that Mrs Clinton is not part of the
Obama inner circle — a traditionally helpful feature in that job. There is also a constant "residue of friction"
between Mr Obama's and Mrs Clinton's teams, according to insiders. For example, Cheryl Mills, Mrs
Clinton's chief of staff, has had several run-ins with others in the administration.
One official describes Mrs Clinton as "totally loyal" to Mr Obama. He adds: "She and the president are not
the best of friends — how could they be? But she totally respects the presidency — she was married to a
president and she wanted to be one ... She still might be."
Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2010. Print a single copy of this article for personal use. Contact us if you wish to
print more to distribute to others.
"FT" and "Financial Times" are trademarks of the Financial Times. Privacy policy I Terms
© Copyright The Financial Times Ltd 2010.
 --- 

He landed and is home He will also be in the office for the entire day tomorrow. 202 419 1420. B6
 --- 

PIR <preines(
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 1:16 PM
CDM; Huma Abedin; Jake Sullivan
FLOTUS re XFLOTUS
From Larry King last night:
LARRY KING: How is the -- it was so bitter -- well, rather bitter in the campaign with Hillary, when they were going at
each other.
MICHELLE OBAMA: Yes, it seems so long ago.
KING: Yes. How are they doing now together?
OBAMA: They're great. Hillary Clinton is an amazing secretary of State. I mean she would have been an amazing
president. She was an amazing attorney. She's a phenomenal professional. And she's proven to be a tremendous asset in
-- in so many ways. So the relationship is -- is -- is strong. They share the same views in terms of international policy and
approach. And we're seeing the outcome of that on the international stage. I think, you know, we can say pretty clearly
that the United States -- the -- the view of this nation around the world has changed. People are enthusiastic about the
potential. Things aren't perfect. We're still a nation fighting two wars. But when we travel around the country, the
excitement and the possibility are palpable. And I think that's because of the president, but I think it's also because of
our secretary of State.
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1002/09/1k1.01.html
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Tuesday, September 21, 2010 4:55 PM
Blair note
NOTE
12 September 2010
PLAN A: Renew moratorium + game-changer for Israel
PLAN B: Less than full renewal + major CBMs for Palestinians
 --- 

Were you able to correct the record on our travel?
 --- 

Ok to go.
 --- 

Pls read the article so we can discuss whether we need to take any action.
 --- 

I have not looked at it (if I have it which I'm not sure about). So want Mike's advice. We should talk about it this
afternoon--pis set a time w Huma to do so.
 --- 

Lavrov thanked me for sending Ellen to Geneva and was delighted to hear she would be back on the 9th and would stay
until we reached agreement. You can read the memcon for more details.
 --- 

Good work. Let me know if I need to do anything else.
 --- 

The Dominican minister here in Costa Rica said the DR would host a "World Conf on Haiti" on June 2 in the DR (of
course). First I'd heard of it, and, I assume, first for you too. Are you or someone in our world or Bill's in contact w them?
Pres Fernandez is a force to be reckoned w since he spans the Latin Am political spectrum fro Chavez to us. I will see him
later in Guatemala. We are handicapped by our lack of an Ambassador there--what is latest on Raul? Will he ever be
nominated?
 --- 

Where are we on this?
 --- 

Thx, Rich, but I don't think H should prepare a paper since it's not part of your official job. I'm seeing her this week so if
you can give me info to use, I will share w her. Appreciate the help.
 --- 

Courtney--Please share this w Zia and use for scheduling matters. Thanks so much, HRC
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

I'd prefer to get all calls done by 2 if possible.
 --- 

When can she talk?
 --- 

Let me know what time she offers.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, March 6, 2010 11:00 AM
'preines
Re: Reminder: WaPo Call re Bob Barnett
Was that ok? Can you give transcript to Bob?
 --- 

I've just talked w Empey, Robinson and McG and, as of today, the vote will be fine on the 9th and it's up to the UUP to
decide if they want to remain relevant or not. Both Peter and Martin were positive so, unless a crisis erupts, all is well.
 --- 

Anytime before 11.
 --- 

Pis call me when you can to discuss w me.
 --- 

That's fine. I did not hear about the arrest yet.
 --- 

I just landed from NY. The ppt looks good to me. I have a few questions I will discuss w you tomorrow.
 --- 

image007jpg; image001jpg; image002.jpg; image003jpg; image004jpg; image005jpg;
image006jpg; image007jpg
Pls print.
 --- 

Explain again why we shouldn't have PJ apologize?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Tuesday, March 9, 2010 7:56 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Libya
Talk w PJ and Jeff before staff mtg and work out appropriate language.
 --- 

Can you send my mini?
 --- 

for Haiti, Lugar says
Let's discuss today.
 --- 

I like the draft. I have a few comments and ideas for the end. PIs talk to Lona about coming to see me later.
 --- 

Is there a reason I don't mention the need for the UN to have more women at higher levels?
 --- 

Can you talk tomorrow before 10:30 am?
 --- 

Pls regret.
 --- 

Can you have S/P prepare a comparison of India, Pakistan and Banghladesh over the last 20-30 years on as many factors
reflecting their respective economic and social development as you can muster? I suspect it will prove useful in my
meetings w Pak leaders in ten days.
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 


 --- 

Take off:
Miliband
Carson
Netanyahu
Mubarak
Powell
Rice
Lautenberg--but ask Rob to do note
Pascual
 --- 

Call if there is info to report. Thx.
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

Thx for all you did to make it work. I thought it went very well and I was so pleased you could be there. Now, onto the
Irish!
 --- 

PIs print. .
 --- 

Can you send me a draft this morning? And, what is the Lamplighter story?
 --- 

How's it going? I'm happy to go on the record anytime anywhere on his behalf. Just let me know.
 --- 

So, what do we do now?
 --- 

Not if they say there have been problems which they were addressing before the quake and w outside help will continue
and achieve their reform agenda.
 --- 

Not yet.
 --- 

Makes a good case. Should we include policy?
 --- 

Not until I have a report from Mitchell. No one asked mer to call and I don't know what I'd say.
 --- 

Where are points? Jake did mention it, but I didn't know there was a decision.
 --- 

Ok to schedule after Marianne sometime.
 --- 

PIs do after 1 if possible.
 --- 

I meant after 1:30. Thx
 --- 

When can we do conf call on speech?
 --- 

Can we reschedule the dinner if I can't do the 24th?
 --- 

Will I get a draft later today?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, March 21, 2010 3:55 PM
Valenzuelaaa@state.gov.
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
letter
 --- 

Thanks so much. As to visuals, will we have handouts or power point on screen?
 --- 

I'd like one-on-one time w him.
 --- 

Am I supposed to call her tomorrow?
 --- 

Sounds great.
 --- 

At beginning. Will there be a camera spray?
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, March 21, 2010 4:14 PM
'sullivan-@state.gov'
Re: letter
 --- 

I don't have memo.
 --- 

On next draft, and I hope last, which incorporates all these changes, I will make line edits.
 --- 

I just went over edits w Dan. Let me know if there are any serious changes from reviewers.
 --- 

For the meeting?
 --- 

Ok w me
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, March 22, 2010 7:24 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: AIPAC
 --- 

Sounds good.
 --- 

Pls add to the acknowledgements: Howard Friedman, Ester Kurz and Richard Fishman.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, March 22, 2010 8:47 AM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'preines
Health care topper
 --- 

I think we should reconsider this invite.
 --- 

Am sending to Lona to work out time.
 --- 

Let's hear it for the nuns--I knew when they came out, the die was cast and Bart would get his knuckles rapped. Now,
let's wrap this up in the Senate and go drink something unhealthy! All your AIPAC friends told me you're doing well so
take care and keep going--w the wind at you back and my fervent cheers--Hillary
 --- 

I need to discuss Pakistan agenda--pls call me thru Ops.
 --- 

Remember the comparison I asked for? Is that ready--I'd like it today.
 --- 

I haven't seen it yet and it's not in my materials for today.
 --- 

Pis put him on my call list and call to ask how late tonight or early tomorrow I can call him.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, March 26, 2010 5:45 AM
'sbwhoeop
• Re:
I have extended my congrats to all.
 --- 

What a week!
 --- 

Pls be sure that this # is on call list.
 --- 

Is it too late to get a plane for tonight? (I have too much stuff!) If it is, I may prefer to shuttle back Sunday and fly to
Ottawa straight from DC on Monday in order to get better organized for next week.
 --- 

Were you able to get a copy of it?
 --- 

I will call later.
 --- 

Outreach Center
Pls print.
 --- 


 --- 

I'm free until 10:30 and after 1. Sorry I couldn't get back to you last night.
 --- 

Call me at home thru Ops.
 --- 

Bill--My husband cannot go w PM Putin in mid-April because of his schedule, but he would be very interested in doing
such events w the PM in the future. Will you pls pass on to the Russians? Thx. HRC
 --- 

I've reviewed the memo from Bob and Derek and can agree w its comments but would like to know what Jim thinks.
 --- 

Ok. Thx.
 --- 

I have to meet w Baucus after the recess on trade issues
April 28--I want to meet w the Belgian FM
Did we ever get a date for Mort Zuckerman dinner for the Wiesels?
I'd like to meet w:
Phil Goldberg
Jackie Novogartz
I'd like to see Missy Kincaid when she and her family are here June 27-July 8.
 --- 

PIs put the following on the list:
Walter Pincus (move him up from 12/9/08) Derek Harvey (move him up) Mona Ackerman (move from 9/24/08)
And take off the following:
Belgian FM
Height
Turkish FM
Lowey
Cannon
Rosen
Goldberg
McLarty (the 1/4 entry
Frist
Foxman
Stern
Rhodeen
Osteen
Straley
Jacobs
Magee
 --- 

A friend just emailed me telling me she was so sorry I had such a tough day in Canada. What's the news that suggests
that back here?
 --- 

Here's what she said:
Sounds like a tuff day in Canada. Sorry you have such a incredibly hard job but we do appreciate all you do.
Beats me.
Original Messa•e
 --- 


 --- 

No.
 --- 

Ok. Did you see the latest FT article?
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 4:36 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: In case you haven't seen this in today's FT. Sid
Saw it. What do you make of it?
 --- 

You did a fabulous job and everybody knew this would not have succeeded w/out your leadership. Onward.
 --- 

