
 --- 

Happy new year to you and Bill--and Chelsea! Congrats on the upcoming marriage. A good sign, I hope, that this year will
be better. Onward, upward. Sid
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Friday, January 1, 2010 12:27 PM
Re: Happy New Year!
And read Krugman today in nyt
 --- 

Krugman, in case you haven't seen:
January 1, 2010
Op-Ed Columnist
Chinese New Year
By PAUL KRUGMAN
It's the season when pundits traditionally make predictions about the year ahead. Mine concerns international economics:
I predict that 2010 will be the year of China. And not in a good way.
Actually, the biggest problems with China involve climate change. But today I want to focus on currency policy.
China has become a major financial and trade power. But it doesn't act like other big economies. Instead, it follows a
mercantilist policy, keeping its trade surplus artificially high. And in today's depressed world, that policy is, to put it bluntly,
predatory.
Here's how it works: Unlike the dollar, the euro or the yen, whose values fluctuate freely, China's currency is pegged by
official policy at about 6.8 yuan to the dollar. At this exchange rate, Chinese manufacturing has a large cost advantage
over its rivals, leading to huge trade surpluses.
Under normal circumstances, the inflow of dollars from those surpluses would push up the value of China's currency,
unless it was offset by private investors heading the other way. And private investors are trying to get into China, not out
of it. But China's government restricts capital inflows, even as it buys up dollars and parks them abroad, adding to a $2
trillion-plus hoard of foreign exchange reserves.
This policy is good for China's export-oriented state-industrial complex, not so good for Chinese consumers. But what
about the rest of us?
In the past, China's accumulation of foreign reserves, many of which were invested in American bonds, was arguably
doing us a favor by keeping interest rates low — although what we did with those low interest rates was mainly to inflate a
housing bubble. But right now the world is awash in cheap money, looking for someplace to go. Short-term interest rates
are close to zero; long-term interest rates are higher, but only because investors expect the zero-rate policy to end some
day. China's bond purchases make little or no difference.
Meanwhile, that trade surplus drains much-needed demand away from a depressed world economy. My back-of-the-
envelope calculations suggest that for the next couple of years Chinese mercantilism may end up reducing U.S.
employment by around 1.4 million jobs.
The Chinese refuse to acknowledge the problem. Recently Wen Jiabao, the prime minister, dismissed foreign complaints:
"On one hand, you are asking for the yuan to appreciate, and on the other hand, you are taking all kinds of protectionist
measures." Indeed: other countries are taking (modest) protectionist measures precisely because China refuses to let its
currency rise. And more such measures are entirely appropriate.
Or are they? I usually hear two reasons for not confronting China over its policies. Neither holds water.
First, there's the claim that we can't confront the Chinese because they would wreak havoc with the U.S. economy by
dumping their hoard of dollars. This is all wrong, and not just because in so doing the Chinese would inflict large losses on
themselves. The larger point is that the same forces that make Chinese mercantilism so damaging right now also mean
that China has little or no financial leverage.
Again, right now the world is awash in cheap money. So if China were to start selling dollars, there's no reason to think it
would significantly raise U.S. interest rates. It would probably weaken the dollar against other currencies — but that would
be good, not bad, for U.S. competitiveness and employment. So if the Chinese do dump dollars, we should send them a
thank-you note.
 --- 

Thank you for such a lovely note. Life
seems very sweet indeed this New Year's Day, and all the more so with the privilege of doing meaningful and important
work with a great team of people and a leader whom I am proud to serve. It has been quite a journey indeed, one that
has been hard at times, but immensely rewarding. Happy New Year, and here's to a great 2010.
AM
 --- 

jpg
The new year is bound to bring in a continuing wave of crisis around the world. Consider this photo a
momentary respite. It is evocative of the good feeling you engender everywhere. The photo is of the Director
of New Life Center in Chiang Mai. They are doing incredible work there and have made exceptional progress
since your visit. They remember you with great gratitude. I had one of your signed photos left after
distributing the others to the Burmese women human rights leaders (who also felt that you were on their
side).
Everywhere I went over the holidays, there was much favorable comment about your leadership. I'm so proud
to be back working with you. Because you've created such ripples of hope, we've got so much to do!
Love to all the Clintons and best wishes for a healthy, happy, productive and rewarding New Year.
<<New Life Center Foundation 2009.jpg»
 --- 

Thank you and a very happy new year to you both!
Will make sure to add to the calendar.
 --- 

Importance: High
ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE/ATTORNEY WORK-PRODUCT
And Happy New Year to you (and your family) too! I am so thrilled to be in this job and working with you. I am having a
great time, and hope to have an even better 2010.
Re Blackwater. I have already put these very questions to our team, and they are working up a memo on the subject.
Significantly, the press accounts are all saying that State Department lawyers appropriately warned the DOJ prosecutors,
but that the DOJ lawyers chose to take a different route.
My initial reactions to your questions are as follows:
I will keep pressing and give you an oral report at Monday's 8:45, and we can get the promised memo to you soon
thereafter.
Please let me know if you need more.
Best
Harold
For
 --- 

ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE/ATTORNEY WORK-PRODUCT
Ok. Will do.
 --- 

Cover story in the Economist this week. Very big issue when I was in Japan and Korea. Korean parliamentarians want to
get women and economic growth on the G20 agenda when they have the lead next year and we are advocating for Japan
to advance the issue at APEC which they are leading this year.
On another note, so sad about Smith Bagley. He was a good person and was one of your biggest fans.
Women and work
We did it!
Dec 30th 2009
From The Economist print edition
The rich world's quiet revolution: women are
gradually taking over the workplace
Getty Images
AT A time when the world is short of causes for celebration, here is a candidate:
within the next few months women will cross the 50% threshold and become the
majority of the American workforce. Women already make up the majority of
university graduates in the OECD countries and the majority of professional
workers in several rich countries, including the United States. Women run many
of the world's great companies, from PepsiCo in America to Areva in France.
Women's economic empowerment is arguably the biggest social change of our
times. Just a generation ago, women were largely confined to repetitive, menial
jobs. They were routinely subjected to casual sexism and were expected to
abandon their careers when they married and had children. Today they are
running some of the organisations that once treated them as second-class
citizens. Millions of women have been given more control over their own lives.
And millions of brains have been put to more productive use. Societies that try to
resist this trend—most notably the Arab countries, but also Japan and some
southern European countries—will pay a heavy price in the form of wasted talent
and frustrated citizens.
This revolution has been achieved with only a modicum of friction (see article).
Men have, by and large, welcomed women's invasion of the workplace. Yet even
the most positive changes can be incomplete or unsatisfactory. This particular
advance comes with two stings. The first is that women are still under-
represented at the top of companies. Only 2% of the bosses of America's largest
companies and 5% of their peers in Britain are women. They are also paid
significantly less than men on average. The second is that juggling work and
child-rearing is difficult. Middle-class couples routinely complain that they have
too little time for their children. But the biggest losers are poor children—
particularly in places like America and Britain that have combined high levels of
female participation in the labour force with a reluctance to spend public money
on child care.
Dealing with the juggle
These two problems are closely related. Many women feel they have to choose
between their children and their careers. Women who prosper in high-pressure
companies during their 20s drop out in dramatic numbers in their 30s and then
find it almost impossible to regain their earlier momentum. Less-skilled women
are trapped in poorly paid jobs with hand-to-mouth child-care arrangements.
Motherhood, not sexism, is the issue: in America, childless women earn almost as
much as men, but mothers earn significantly less. And those mothers' relative
poverty also disadvantages their children.
Demand for female brains is helping to alleviate some of these problems. Even if
some of the new theories about warm-hearted women making inherently superior
workers are bunk (see article), several trends favour the more educated sex,
including the "war for talent" and the growing flexibility of the workplace. Law
firms, consultancies and banks are rethinking their "up or out" promotion systems
because they are losing so many able women. More than 90% of companies in
Germany and Sweden allow flexible working. And new technology is making it
easier to redesign work in all sorts of family-friendly ways.
Women have certainly performed better over the past decade than men. In the
European Union women have filled 6m of the 8m new jobs created since 2000. In
America three out of four people thrown out of work since the "mancession"
began have been male. And the shift towards women is likely to continue: by
2011 there will be 2.6m more female than male university students in America.
The light hand of the state
All this argues, mostly, for letting the market do the work. That has not stopped
calls for hefty state intervention of the Scandinavian sort. Norway has used
threats of quotas to dramatic effect. Some 40% of the legislators there are
women. All the Scandinavian countries provide plenty of state-financed nurseries.
They have the highest levels of female employment in the world and far fewer of
the social problems that plague Britain and America. Surely, comes the argument,
there is a way to speed up the revolution—and improve the tough lives of many
working women and their children?
If that means massive intervention, in the shape of affirmative-action
programmes and across-the-board benefits for parents of all sorts, the answer is
no. To begin with, promoting people on the basis of their sex is illiberal and
unfair, and stigmatises its beneficiaries. And there are practical problems. Lengthy
periods of paid maternity leave can put firms off hiring women, which helps
explain why most Swedish women work in the public sector and Sweden has a
lower proportion of women in management than America does.
But there are plenty of cheaper, subtler ways in which governments can make life
easier for women. Welfare states were designed when most women stayed at
home. They need to change the way they operate. German schools, for instance,
close at midday. American schools shut down for two months in the summer.
These things can be changed without huge cost. Some popular American charter
schools now offer longer school days and shorter summer holidays. And, without
going to Scandinavian lengths, America could invest more in its children: it
spends a lower share of its GDP on public child-care than almost any other rich
country, and is the only rich country that refuses to provide mothers with paid
maternity leave. Barack Obama needs to measure up to his campaign rhetoric
about "real family values".
Still, these nagging problems should not overshadow the dramatic progress that
women have made in recent decades. During the second world war, when
America's menfolk were off at the front, the government had to summon up the
image of Rosie the Riveter, with her flexed muscle and "We Can Do It" slogan, to
encourage women into the workforce. Today women are marching into the
workplace in ever larger numbers and taking a sledgehammer to the remaining
glass ceilings.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Sunday, January 3, 2010 10:01 AM
H: They asked for 250 words and I wrote slightly more, briefly on China. Sid
2010: global cracks, human prospects (part II)
No•
a¦iid Hayes, 2 January 2010
Subjects:
• Democracy and government
• International politics
More openDemocracy authors reflect on a volcanic decade in global politics - continued from part I
openDemocracy deputy editor David Hayes asked openDemocracy writers to reflect on the decade that has passed and
the one that lies ahead by considering three questions:
1)What was the most significant trend in the century's first decade?
2) What do you most hope for, and most fear, about the decade to come?
3) What idea do you see fading and/or emerging in 2010 and beyond?
• Sidney Blumenthal
The greatest challenge for the early 21st century is that China's leadership has contempt for much of the international
order and many of the international organisations developed since the second world war. In pursuit of its narrow and even
crude understanding of its interest, China will constantly abuse and break international rules, protocols and bodies. Its
willful destruction of the Copenhagen summit on climate change reveals the pattern. Its mercantile currency policy in a
beggar-thy-neighbour approach, environmental degradation, and disdain for human rights and the rule of law generally
are the obvious reflections of its despotism. Through its rough and strange neo-imperialism, in Africa especially but also
elsewhere, China is able to gain help, partly through economic intimidation, in its international forays to repel or strike
down the responsibilities of internationalism.
Internally, China is a prison of nations, an empire similar to imperial Russia and the Soviet Union, and may also be the
most unequal industrial country in distribution of income. China's power is increasing, but the authoritarian regime is
hardly the wave of the future as some awestruck worshippers of raw power and money (whether investment bankers or
ex-Marxists) imagine. The system is inherently unstable, which accounts for its rigid currency policy (at root a fear of
operating on other than a virtual slave-labour standard, of turning its poverty-stricken millions into consumers with real
choice, and ultimately of letting go even a little bit).
In the long-term the tyranny of the one-party state and its military rule is at odds with the new economic classes of
entrepreneurs and professionals it has fostered. China's growing economic power is accompanied by expanding
arrogance, demonstrated not least in the incivility and rudeness with which President Obama was treated on his trip there.
China's regime lacks an ideal other than a communist gloss on Confucian uniformity, itself based incoherently on reckless
economic development, for example in the areas of currency, environment and labour; it has no "soft power", not just
because of the coarseness of its supposed diplomacy, but also because its cultural appeal does not travel. China forces
its way through coercion of one sort or another.
The next decade will see how flexible or inflexible its rulers are and how secure their system is. The brief effort at a
rhetorical gesture by some in the Obama administration who floated the turgid phrase "strategic reassurance" was risible
and did not last. For now, the west has no policy to deal with China as it is. The place to begin is on currency.
The most powerful idea for the 21st century is the equality of women. It is the idea most feared by those - from the Vatican
to the Taliban - arrayed against modernity, the still vibrant project of the Enlightenment. Someday the United States may
even have a woman president. It took fifty years after granting the vote to African-Americans to pass a constitutional
amendment giving it to women. Perhaps the distance between electing the first African-American president and the first
female one will not be so great.
Sidney Blumenthal is former senior adviser to President Clinton, and an Oscar and Emmy award-winning documentary
producer. He is writing a book on Abraham Lincoln
Also by Sidney Blumenthal:
"The choice" (21 November 2007)
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, January 17, 2010 10:09 AM
H
FW: URGENT: Friends of Haiti Teleconference
Copying you as heads up for your 1pm call only —not for decision.
cdm
From Abedin, Huma
Sent: Sunday, January 17, 2010 10:00 AM
To: Jacobson, Roberta S; S_SpecialAssistants; Valmoro, Lona J; Sullivan, Jacob J; Mills, Cheryl D
Cc: Reynoso, Julissa; Kelly, Craig A; Valenzuela, Arturo A; Gonzalez, Juan S
Subject: Re: URGENT: Friends of Haiti Teleconference
Cheryl needs to address
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, January 17, 2010 10:56 AM
H
Fw: Rep. Meek is Haiti - details
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

This is what you should have lust gotten
 --- 

Marina told me she left. I'm faxing to secret service. Dan will make sure u get it
 --- 


 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Sunday, January 17, 2010 12:53 PM
H
1pm call manifest
We now have confirmed participation by Brazil/Amorim; France/Kouchner; Haiti/PM; Chile, Uruguay, Peru at ministerial
level; Argentina, Mexico, and Costa Rica at Vice Min level. UN has committed to high-level participation as well,
 --- 

Yes will do.
 --- 

Contacting with wha now. Frattini would have to cancel his trip so we would have to re-schedule for another date or just
do in context of one of these multilateral meetings. He has a big speech in italy on the 26th.
 --- 

Give me a few minutes
 --- 

Importance:
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Sunday, January 3, 2010 1:53 PM
Abedin, Huma
FW: 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan
2009-12-31 Lewis Department Notice.docx; 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan.docx
High
HRC:
Per our conversation, she advised I could forward this — it will also come through channels.
cdm
 --- 

III confirm if he'll be there for london.
As for paris, looks like sarkozy will be there but we won't know for sure till tomorrow. So it would mean sarkozy meeting,
speech and kouchner around 6pm when he's back from davos.
 --- 

Checking.
 --- 

PIR <
Monday, January 25, 2010 8:54 AM
Jake Sullivan; Huma Abedin; CDM
Montreal Travelers
Half old half new faces on the plane today:
AP/Bob Burns
Reuters/Arshad
AFP/Christophe Schmidt
WP/Glenn Kessler (1st time since India)
NPR/Michele Kelleman
Ed Luce( Financial Times)
April Ryan (American Urban Radio
Ray Boone (Richmond Free Press)
Dewayne Wickham (USA Today)
Tom Jonud (Esquire Magazine)
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Gordon Brown called Lou Susman a short while ago. Brown believes you should make a call to McGuinness this morning
around 830 am (Declan and I agree that if you call McG you also must call Robinson). Brown proposes to speak with you
at 820 or so to bring you up to speed before those calls.
The current situation is that Brown and Cowen are in Belfast, and met with Robinson, McGuinness, and other parties
until 330 in the morning Belfast time. They have now resumed today. The sticking point is parades. Robinson wants the
current parades commission abolished because it gives Republicans too much say. McGuinness refuses to allow the
parades issue to be tied to the devolution issue.
The key message to McGuinness is to keep working this thing through -- not to take any drastic action that would bring
down the assembly or collapse the process.
Declan agrees that this is the moment to make calls.
If you agree we can have the ops center set up the Brown call as well as the other two.
We'll get you some more background before the calls, but talking points will be fluid and shaped in large measure by
Brown's report.
 --- 

Jake Sullivan
Tuesday, January 26, 2010 8:14 AM
H; Abed in, Huma (Clinton)
call sheet
Call_Sheets jjs.docx
Attached and pasted below is material for the calls
Calls to Brown and Northern Ireland Political Leaders
PM Brown has asked to brief you on ongoing negotiations convened by the UK and Irish
governments yesterday with FM Peter Robinson and dFM Martin McGuinness and their
respective teams, which lasted until 3:30 a.m. in the morning and resumed at 9:00 a.m. today.
Sinn Fein and the DUP are apparently not yet meeting face to face at Hillsborough but using the
two governments as go betweens. On-site observers have characterized the current atmosphere
between the two parties as "poisonous."
B6
were invited to Hillsborough yesterday night. However, these
parties tell us that this was only an informational exercise and they have yet to be included in
any substantive meetings.
Outstanding Issues: The obstacle to progress seems to be centered on the parades issue and
setting of specific dates for devolution. Robinson and the DUP are insisting on the abolishing
of the Parades Commission, an independent panel despised by the Orange Order as restricting
their desire to parade through nationalist areas, and the adoption of a new process relying on
local councils to refer potentially contentious parades to an OFM/dFM selected panel. Sinn
Fein and SDLP are both concerned that this will politicize decision-making on parades and
PSNI involvement.
In late December, the UK government renewed the Parades Commission's mandate until
December 2010, so it is expected that any new process would not be implemented until after the
summer 2010 parading season.
B1
1.4(B)
1.4(D)
Key points:
B5
Outcomes: If McGuinness resigns (likely along with the other SF ministers) thereby collapsing
the current Executive, the Northern Ireland Act provides for seven calendar days for a new
Executive to be formed. Failing that, the Assembly cease to operation and Secretary of State
Woodward is supposed to schedule new elections though he is not required to do so within a
certain timeframe. (Technically, it would take at least five weeks to organize new Assembly
elections.) B1
1.4(B)
1.4(E)
 --- 

Good morning Doug -
I think my response bounced back so I'm trying this again (apologies if you get two emails from me) Send me any points
you would want to have made in the letter, as well as if it should be addressed to anyone in particular, and we'll get it
done!
Thanks!
 --- 

I just wanted to share how much the Secretary and the rest of us on the trip appreciated the paper you put together on
ACEH. As we are examining how to be a good partner to Haiti, having the benefit of this insight is helpful.
Best.
cdm
 --- 

I'll be sure Huma knows too.
202-224-0343 w (Pat)
B6
Lauren
 --- 

thoughts
 --- 


 --- 

See below - confidential.
Also for WJC.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Checked with philippe on plane and he said hes professionally 100% ok for following reasons.
1)We did it for Copenhagen.
2) Condi would be dropped in Crawford on way home from foreign trips.
3) They already know and don't care.
But let me know if you want to change to dc, and I can easily tell Lew.
 --- 

Our Posts at work.
 --- 

Below is from the Economist blogger re efforts wil EU to discredit Ashton, particularly from the French. Wouldn't hurt to
mention her positively with French interlocutors. See particularly this line: "There is, frankly, a whiff of old boy's
network against Lady Ashton: she is not a lifetime member of the honourable guild of former foreign
ministers, and she is surrounded by men in suits who think they know a lot more about foreign policy than
she does. There is not much sympathy for her complicated family life, involving young children, and much
commuting between Brussels and Britain."
A blog by the author of our column on the European Union
Charlemagne's notebook
. Why did Lady Ashton take the EU's foreign policy job?
• Jan 26th 2010, 22:04
NOT yet February, and the briefing against Catherine Ashton, the newly appointed EU foreign policy chief,
is getting nasty. Jean Quatremer, the Brussels blogger and well-connected EU correspondent of Liberation,
dropped another depth charge against the baroness tonight. His list of complaints against her is long, and
I have a feeling some of them are a smidgeon exaggerated. I find it hard to believe it is literally
impossible to reach Lady Ashton after eight o'clock in the evening as Mr Quatremer charges, because she
allegedly has her mobile telephones diverted to the EU situation centre (a small intelligence analysis cell
staffed by officers from national servicies) after that hour. I also have some doubts about the stress laid
on the fact that she has not yet got round to having top secret security clearance yet, so cannot see any
confidential papers. As a former British cabinet minister, and serving UK commissioner, something tells
me the British at least may share just the odd secret with her.
A senior official I saw today also made the point that any holder of Lady Ashton's post would currently be
struggling with teething problems and squabbling as the new foreign policy apparatus created by the
Lisbon Treaty takes shape. There is, frankly, a whiff of old boy's network against Lady Ashton: she is not a
lifetime member of the honourable guild of former foreign ministers, and she is surrounded by men in
suits who think they know a lot more about foreign policy than she does. There is not much sympathy for
her complicated family life, involving young children, and much commuting between Brussels and Britain.
Finally, at the risk of sounding too loyal to the British, I think Mr Quatremer is being unfair when he says
that it suits the Foreign Office in London to have Lady Ashton "sabotage" the post. My impression is that
aritich nnvornmpni- fPPlc I (iv Achtnn nePdc a lot of sunnort riaht now and worries she is not getting
enough support, but at the same time worries that if she receives too much help in the way of briefings
and advice from British officials, she will be seen as a British stooge. That may be a self-serving sort of
fear (because it allows the British to offer Lady Ashton lots of help) but it is real enough.
Other charges probably have something to them. They certainly chime with things I have been told by
other people.
But most damaging, to my mind, is the intimate nature of some of the briefing: this stuff is coming from
officials close to Lady Ashton, or who are senior enough to have significant contact with her. And I can
confirm from my own conversations that people across the whole EU foreign policy machine are asking the
same question: why did she take this huge job, when her instinct seems to be to make it as low key as
possible? That is a dangerous question mark to have hanging over you.
 --- 

She is headed downstairs to do a quick interview with Andrea Mitchell and then she's off to the PC. I'll try!!
 --- 

Cloture invoked on Bernake nomination 77-23. Final vote on nomination now.
 --- 

Calling you now.
 --- 

Ops has not be able to reach you
 --- 


 --- 

Thank you SO much! We will get the photo off widely.
Had a good meeting w Melinda Gates. They are ready to support our maternal and child health initiative. Your husband
touched everyone here with his Haiti plea.
We're making good progress on women's issues.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

He now works for us
 --- 

McHale, Judith A <McHaleJA@state.gov>
Friday, January 29, 2010 6:47 AM
Re: a couple of powerful quotes from foreign media which we highlighted in our cable
Thx. Had a great conversation with Doug Hattaway.
Will fill you in when I see you.
Also working with Amb Pascual on a new strategy for Mexicom
Finally working with Cheryl to help GoH with communication from g to p.
On my way to India and bangalesh.
 --- 

There is a very elegant picture of you on the front page of the IHT. AM
Anne-Marie Slaughter
Director of Policy Planning
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2972
 --- 

See highlight
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 

Remind me to discuss
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Stern, Todd D (S/SECC) <SternTD@state.gov>
Sunday, January 3, 2010 1:33 PM
Huma Abedin; Stern, Todd D (S/SECC)
Re: Question
Hi. Hope you've gotten some rest! We're at O'Hare on way back to DC
Todd
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Here's the update, pieced together from various sources:
Starting at around 3 pm Friday, Adams and McGuinness returned to Hillsborogh to meet with Robinson and Arlene
Foster. The four talked privately for several hours and then asked for the draft papers to review. The discussion
continued until around 1 am when the parties left Hillsborough. (Foster's presence is apparently very helpful. Her
relationship with the SF leaders is much more positive and direct, treating them as equal colleagues.)
Woodward and Irish FM Martin will meet with Adams and Robinson separately this afternoon to assess where the talks
are. The talks last night/early morning ended more positively and if that is still the case there may be a decision to push
on today to see if agreement can be reached. It is equally possible that the two ministers and DUP/SF will decide to
wind up today and resume on Monday.
Brown and Cowen have spoken this morning and will speak again late this afternoon.
The issue is still parades. Robinson needs some certainity of change on parades. It is important for him politically within
the DUP, but also externally since this has become a symbol of whether he has achieved something or compromised too
much. Adams and SF have moved very far from their original positions on parades, adding that Robinson has also
moved.
The DUP linkage of the timeframes for devolution and parades is not Robinson's goal but DUP deputy party leader Nigal
Dodds. Logistically, such a linkage would be impossible without delaying devolution given that the parades framework
requires consultation, legislation, and implementation.
The role of Justice Minister and his/her relationship to the Executive has been agreed. Other issues, such as Irish
language act, N-S bodies, etc, while symbolic and emotive for SF and the nationalists community can be dealt with.
 --- 

Happy New Year to you as well! It's been an honor to work for you. I'm excited -- and bracing -- for the work ahead.
As for business, I've sent along the outline for the year-end POTUS report and the first weekly Af-Pak report.
 --- 

It's 745 pm -- they're still talking. British think it's reasonably positive.
 --- 

Sorry - been on calls all day re coordination for haiti
How about 8am or 830am sun?
 --- 

Thank you so much - it's a pleasure and an honor!
I'll get to work on these first thing tomorrow morning and I'll consult with Huma to fill in the blanks.
Have a safe trip back to DC!
 --- 

Of course. I will not forward any of your emails and I appreciate your sending notes on issues you want to make sure we
are tracking!
 --- 

You keep asking what she is doing there - I am not sure though I know I had her itinerary b/f she left - will try to find it
 --- 

Prince
Heads up - will forward more as known
 --- 

Second update
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Saturday, Janua 30 S S 0 PM
H; cheryl.mills
Re: Have you received email from Bill w letter from Ban yet?
Just came - am sendng my comments to laura later tonight - want to compare it to architecture doc for un-us-goh that
has been subject of multiple calls today
 --- 

January 30, 2010
For: Hillary
 --- 


 --- 

Missed Shaun, but was just on the phone with his COS, who said there are still some details to be worked out Monday.
She "wouldn't put a full stop on it," but things are looking very good.
Looks like tomorrow will be a down day and then they'll reconvene Monday to try to bang out the last details and
announce.
 --- 

Just tried emailing you but not sure it went through --
Missed Shaun, but talked to his COS a short while ago. She said there are still a few details to be worked out Monday.
She "wouldn't put a full stop on it," though things are looking very good. Tomorrow will be a down day and they'll
reconvene Monday to bang out last details and (hopefully) announce.
I'll be in touch with other people in the morning and give you there reports.
Will also check in with DecIan!
 --- 


 --- 

Will do.
 --- 


 --- 

I get back the morning of February 9 and will be in the office that afternoon. I'll email you and Lona a copy of my
schedule. Walter Douglas and Dan Sreebney have been working with me on Haiti. Walter is in California for Victoria
DeLongh's funeral and will be back in the office Tuesday. He has been working closely with Dan Smith on the Haiti
initiative. Let me know if there is anything you need me to do from here.
im
 --- 

FYI
Schedule so far.
jm
 --- 


 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Sunday, January 31, 2010 10:35 AM
H
Woodward
You're set to go to talk to Shaun at 11. Those we spoke with today confirm that a deal is close and likely. Low level work
happening today; Robinson consulting w DUP tomorrow am.
 --- 

Thank you for your message. I am currently traveling and will be out of the office until Thursday 2/11/10.
If you need assistance with a scheduling matter please reach out to my Scheduler, Eric Woodard, at 202-647-1522.
For all other issues needing immediate attention please contact my Chief-of-Staff, Simon Limage, at 202-647-1749.
 --- 

Interesting observations from DecIan:
Foster was a critical component in the talks apparently. However there is already speculation that PR may use this
moment to try to come back early and resume position of FM given that the other investigations have been delayed
pending the outcome of the police investigation. He went to London with his family yesterday to visit his wife, who is in
a clinic there apparently.
Empey still not on board apparently so the "community confidence" round may be used to put pressure on him to do so.
Our intervention on Thursday night/Friday morning was seen as a very important moment/catalyst. That, coupled with
the jobs losses that day and the fact that the radio and tv phone-in lines and newspapers were full of commentary
supporting what we said, seems to have made people realize, that they couldn't lose the moment.
 --- 

Sorry if sending twice
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, January 31, 2010 12:17 PM
Travel Schedule
CANDIDATES WEEKEND - NEAR FINAL SCHEUDLE_012510.doc
Here was CVC's schedule:
B6
 --- 

Got readout from ops -- will be prepared.
 --- 

Brown has asked to speak with you at 8 am tomorrow morning.
Also, I just spoke with Declan about the conference. There are challenges with the idea of a conference that I'd like to
discuss with you in the morning.
 --- 

I've just asked the Specials to fax the draft to you in Chappaqua. You should be getting it shortly. Hopefully this is a start.
Feedback welcome, of course.
 --- 

FYI below. Harold is proposing to send substantive views on the Pfizer case
 --- 

To rebuild Haiti, start with its young people A 700,000-strong national civic service corps would harness untapped labor
rapidly and instill national pride and confidence.
By Robert Muggah and Robert Maguire
January 31, 2010
Haiti will need big ideas to recover and rebuild in the aftermath of the devastating magnitude 7.0 earthquake this
month. The reported death toll has topped 150,000, and the reconstruction needs are incalculable. How about starting
with a 700,000-strong national civic service corps made up of Haitian youth? There are many reasons why such an entity
makes a lot of sense.
Haiti is a young country. An estimated 70% of the population is under 30; the 15-to-29 segment alone makes up 50% of
the population.
Demographers have long cautioned how excessively youthful populations can potentially exacerbate underdevelopment
and accentuate political instability.
Although Haiti registers among the lowest levels of education in the Western Hemisphere, Haitian youth are a wellspring
of creativity, talent and potential. You don't need to be a community-development specialist to know that they are
stifled by a lack of meaningful opportunities.
Fortunately, Haiti has an enabling environment to set up a civic service corps. Article 52 of the Haitian Constitution
commits citizens to national service, though it has never been activated. What is more, there are many Haitian and
international organizations mobilized and ready to help the government get this going.
A civic service corps would get the young and able out of the tent cities in and around Port-au-Prince and into work.
They could start with the once-iconic center of the capital, but also could begin planting trees, working the fields and
providing services in Haiti's countryside.
At a minimum, this would reverse generations of unfair stigmatizing of the youth there.
This plan would also harness untapped labor rapidly. Before the Jan. 12 earthquake, 50% of youth in their 20s were out
of work. Putting them in service toward rebuilding the capital and outlying areas would be a first step to restoring their
and their country's pride and dignity.
A civic service corps would also multiply international efforts to promote recovery after the world moves on to the next
crisis. Hundreds of humanitarian agencies, donor governments and nongovernmental organizations are facing
monumental challenges in coordinating relief assistance. Although everyone involved is committed to rapid
disbursement, transaction costs are monumental. A civic service corps would allow for a more rapid form of transferring
capital.
Direct support to such a corps would inject serious liquidity into the Haitian economy and stimulate recovery from the
bottom up. Rather than food-for-work schemes, international best practice recommends proposals that promote direct
monetary transfers to beneficiaries. Haitian youth and their families have urgent needs and don't need paternalistic
programs that curb their choices. With proper oversight and financial safeguards, a civic service corps would circumvent
unnecessary administrative costs.
Further, a civic service corps would restore national pride and confidence in Haitian public institutions. During past
decades, the state provided relatively few services to Haitians, particularly outside the capital. In some cases, state
entities were downright predatory. As a result, nonstate providers, including gangs and shady middlemen, filled the gap.
A civic service corps -- wearing the Haitian colors and acting as first responders or organizations demonstrating the
government's presence on the ground -- would show that the government is serious about supporting citizens. It would
be a symbolic first step toward renewing the social contract with the people.
A civic service corps also makes sense for long-term risk and emergency planning. Haiti is situated in the path of
hurricanes and on a fault line, and can expect more disasters. Training 700,000 young people -- especially young women
-- in the basics of first aid, emergency response, community policing and other skills would greatly mitigate the
consequences of future calamities. With disciplined training and management, the corps could provide more intensive
training in specialized areas -- engineering, telecommunications and public health.
An initial step to getting Haiti's youth to work could include the preparation of a road map for future meetings on Haiti,
including the U.N. donor conference scheduled for March. Any final plan would need to draw on the invaluable
experiences of ongoing efforts to mobilize youth in Haiti. These include the work of the Brazilian nongovernmental
organization Viva Rio and its supporters. Before the earthquake, Viva Rio and Brazilian peacekeepers had recruited and
trained hundreds of Haitian youth, including former gang members, to provide relief services in Haiti's slums. This
program could be reactivated and scaled up quickly.
A civic service corps could draw on the lessons from such groups to target and recruit youths for, say, up to two years.
The Haitian government would, of course, need to be the one to manage the undertaking, with direct oversight from the
president's office and the Interior Ministry.
And there are many countries that could provide advice and support.
Nongovernmental groups and private donors could also play a key role in mobilizing support and transferring essential
skills.
Haiti's youth are the future of the nation, and they are central to Haiti's recovery. A civic service corps is a large-scale
way to quickly mobilize them to act as catalyst for long-term, progressive changes.
Robert Muggah, based at the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva, is a principal of
the SecDev Group and is currently advising multilateral and bilateral organizations on Haiti's recovery. Robert Maguire is
on the faculty of Trinity Washington University and chairs the Haiti Working Group of the United States Institute of
Peace in Washington.
Copyright (c) 2010, The Los Angeles Times
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Bjk has also been in very close touch with nina bishop, who does great work in the sports united office (under ECA). III
make sure she and maura also connect.
 --- 

I just landed in London and will work on it with Gary Samore first thing Monday and will get back to you asap Ellen.
 --- 

Sure. It should have been sent three hours ago. Will figure out what happened.
On Jan 31, 2010, at 5:13 PM, H wrote:
> I was out but upon return, did not find a faxed speech. Can you track
> down?
 --- 

If Huma is with you, she has an electronic copy and apparently was going to print it for you rather than use a faxed
version. FYI: It is not in speech font yet -- I just wanted you to see where this is going, but we can send one with bigger
spacing and bigger type too in case you want to write your own thoughts on it.
On Jan 31, 2010, at 5:13 PM, H wrote:
> I was out but upon return, did not find a faxed speech. Can you track
> down?
>
>
 --- 

Thx
Sent from my iPhone
On Jan 31, 2010, at 5:45 PM, H <HDR22@clintonemail.com> wrote:
> I now have it. Thx
>
 --- 

Kris balderston urging you to call bloomberg. We will have time tomorrow if you want to do it.
 --- 

Gordon, Philip H <GordonPH@state.gov>
Sunday, January 31, 2010 7:22 PM
H; Tauscher, Ellen 0
Sullivan, Jacob J
RE: NSS invites
Phil
 --- 

Will do. Thanks
 --- 

See final b/I -
 --- 

Y
 --- 

French.docx; Final Communique Portuguese.docx;
FinalCommuniqueCreole_Revision.docx
Fyi
 --- 

Delivery has failed to these recipients or distribution lists:
mhcalejaftstate.gov
The recipient's e-mail address was not found in the recipient's e-mail system. Microsoft Exchange will not try to redeliver
this message for you. Please check the e-mail address and try resending this message, or provide the following diagnostic
text to your system administrator.
Diagnostic information for administrators:
Generating server: MSWASHDCIB03.washdc.state.sbu
mhcaleja@state.gov
it< #5.1.1> #SMTP#
Original message headers:
Received: from vance2.state.gov ([10.4.16.238]) by
MSWASHDCIB03.washdc.state.sbu with Microsoft SMTPSVC(6.0.3790,3959); Sun, 3
Jan 2010 18:36:58 -0500
Received: from mail.clintonemail.com (ool-i8bbeabb.static.opton1ine.net [24.187.234.187])
by vance2.state.gov with ESMTP id o03NBEEh019168
for (mhcaleja@state.gov>; Sun, 3 Jan 2010 18:11:14 -0500
Received: from CLNTINET08.clinton.local ([fe80::dObb:23d3:f75e:4993]) by
CLNTINET08.clinton.local ([fe80::d0bb:23d3:f75e:4993t10]) with mapi; Sun, 3
Jan 2010 18:36:56 -0500
 --- 

First we are hearing of uruguay, just checked the year end requests from travel and its not in there. We will find out.
As for communities of democracies, building and bureau very much aware you committed to going. We just need to
work with them through dates etc.
 --- 

Inauguration for president mujica of uruguay is March 1st.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Thanks for the new years wish. You can give Senator Gillibrand my name, but I will also ask Miguel to call her Leg
Director in the morning. And I will work with Jake to track down Aga Khan's roadmap to stability.
See you tomorrow.
 --- 

Happy New Year to you, too! I'm sorry for the delay in getting back to you.
On menu: As a start, I can make a list of the lunches that he's made so far. Jason is given money advances. I'm not
positive of the total for last year since I came in April but I can have that answer for you by morning. I have skim milk for
you.
On the Human Rights Watch Report: I found it online and will print. It is 96 pages so I can put this in a binder if you'd like.
Parks and Recreation: NBC Thursdays at 8:30pm The Good Wife: CBS Tuesdays at lOpm
And it is a huge honor to work for you. I learn so much every day and I am so grateful for this unforgettable experience.
Thank you!
 --- 

We have it
Already working on schedule
 --- 


 --- 

8:15 am DEPART Private Residence *En route State Department
8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:40 am Secretary's Office
8:40 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY MEETING OF SENIOR STAFF
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am MONDAY MEETING w/ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
10:00 am Principals Conference Room 7516
10:00 am OFFICE TIME
11:00 am Secretary's Office
11:00 am BILATERAL w/QATARI PRIME MINISTER AND FOREIGN MINISTER
11:45 am SHEIKH HAMAD BIN JASSIM JABR AL-THANI Secretary's Conference Room
*Official photo in East Hall preceding.
11:45 am PRESS PRE-BRIEF
11:50 am Secretary's Office
11:50 am JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/QATARI PRIME MINISTER AND
12:00 pm FOREIGN MINISTER SHEIKH HAMAD BIN JASSIM JABR AL-THANI
Treaty Room
12:10 pm DEPART State Department *En route Blair House
12:15 pm ARRIVE Blair House
12:15 pm WORKING LUNCH FOR QATARI PRIME MINISTER AND
1:15 pm FOREIGN MINISTER HAMAD BIN JASSIM JABR AL-THANI
Lee Dining Room, Blair House
1:20 pm DEPART Blair House *En route State Department
1:25 pm ARRIVE State Department
1:30 pm OFFICE TIME
2:00 pm Secretary's Office
2:00 pm MEETING w/JOHN BEYRLE, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA
2:30 pm Secretary's Office
2:30 pm OFFICE TIME
6:00 pm Secretary's Office
6:00 pm DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
6:10 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

process
FYI — we're getting a copy to your house as well.
 --- 

Dear Secretary:
I was pleased to learn about your development speech this week, and offered the insights below to Anne-Marie earlier
today. Overall, it's a very good speech, and I look forward to hearing you deliver it tomorrow.
4. Mike, through Dan Baer, and I provided language to ensure consistency with the Human Rights Speech.
Thank you,
Maria
Under Secretary of State
for Democracy and Global Affairs
Department of State
2201 C St. NW Room 7261
Washington DC 20520
202 - 647-6240
 --- 

You may have already heard this, but wanted to alert you that Senator Dorgan this evening announced
that he would not seek reelection and is retiring.
He would have been up for reelection in November but his numbers were solid and he wasn't facing a
particularly strong field.
Below is a copy of his statement:
"Over this holiday season, I have come to the conclusion, with the support of my family, that I will not be
seeking another term in the U.S. Senate in 2010. It is a hard decision to make after thirty years in the
Congress, but I believe it is the right time for me to pursue these other interests. Let me be clear that
this decision does not relate to any dissatisfaction that I have about serving in the Senate. Yes, I wish
there was less rancor and more bipartisanship in the U.S. Senate these days. But still, it is a great
privilege to serve and I have the utmost respect for all of the men and women with whom I serve."
Miguel E. Rodriguez
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Senate Affairs
Bureau of Legislative Affairs
U.S. Department of State
(202) 647-2645
rodriguezme@state.gov
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Thanks. I think we're getting her points all covered.
 --- 

fyi
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Tuesday, January 5, 2010 9:13 PM
FW: Daniel Yohannes
B6
 --- 

Here is a new top. We will add the point about how much we actually spend on foreign aid (vs what people think we
spend) a little later in the speech. Wanted to get this to you to see if it is going in the right direction. Am also faxing to
you.
Development / New Top
 --- 

Getting on a 9:30pm call - can I call you after?
 --- 


 --- 

Sorry. I was driving in so didn't see your message when you sent it. You should have the new draft from Megan by now.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Great idea. I wonder if we should also try to get it published in Foreign Affairs or something equivalent.
 --- 

Agreed. We are doing so. Looks like tomorrow or Sat
 --- 

I will prepare for you to sign today.
 --- 

We will put together a list of members and have the letters ready for you to sign today.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

I noticed on your schedule that you are meeting with a number of tech CEO's this evening. Google should be an obvious
co-sponsor of the USA Pavilion and they have consistently pushed us off. Although they bring up IP issues as a reason
not to participate, the Chinese frequently note that they do a lot of business in China. We are now at $54 million. If the
opportunity arises, it would be helpful to note the importance of a USA standing in Shanghai.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

HRC:
Huma reminded me that you wanted to get a more structured agenda for your weeklies with Susan. I will work on that
over the next few weeks.
For tomorrow, Erica anticipates she will likely want to discuss the following items:
In addition to what Jake may add, think you should raise:
 --- 

Fyi
B6
_
 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob i <Sullivanil@state.gov>
Thursday, January 7, 2010 9:45 PM
Mills, Cheryl D; H
Abedin, Huma
Re: Potential Topics Susan Rice Weekly
I've pinged Jim for anything on his list. B5
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

At airport, flying to LA. Landing around 3 p.m. Available for a few minutes now on
 --- 

I will be out of the office until Tuesday, January 19.
 --- 

Strobe Talbott
Monday, January 18, 2010 8:39 AM
H
Re: All praise on Haiti
Fine. Will check for message on arrival at 3 DC time.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, January 9, 2010 9:42 AM
H: Succinct summary on NI situation at this moment. Details to follow later. Sid
January 9,2010
The First Lady, her young lover, and a scandal
that could hand power to Sinn Fein
David McKittrick reports on the far-reaching consequences of
Iris Robinson's infidelity
The mesmerising saga of the toyboy, the Northern Ireland First Minister and his straying wife threatened to engulf
Belfast's frail political settlement last night.
Following a day closeted with advisers Peter Robinson, head of the Northern Ireland government, broke his silence to
insist defiantly that he would not step down after a day of turmoil. His move is unlikely to stem the clamour for an inquiry
into an affair which has fused the political and the sexual. First indications are that members of his party, the Democratic
Unionists (DUP), are reacting to the disclosures with strong disapproval. The party is highly religious and lays heavy
emphasis on Christian family values. It is also currently highly nervous that the revelations could cost it seats in the
coming Westminster election. If the DUP were to fracture as a result of the scandal it could lead the way to Sinn Fein
becoming the largest party in the Northern Ireland Assembly - allowing it to nominate its own first minister and putting the
peace process in jeopardy.
Disclosures in a BBC television programme on the activities of his wife, Iris, who has exited from public life, led to a day-
long flurry of political calls for inquiries into the Robinson family.
Mr Robinson stands accused of failing to notify the authorities that his wife had been involved in financial transactions
without declaring an interest. She helped a 19-year-old "toyboy" lover to set up a business.
Mr Robinson said he had asked for the appointment of a senior counsel "to ask me any questions he or she wishes to
ask, and to give an opinion as to what I should have disclosed or whether I have breached an obligation".
Insisting he had done nothing wrong, Mr Robinson accused the BBC of broadcasting "smears and innuendo". Saying that
he did not rule out a defamation action, he declared: "I am being tried in the court of public opinion."
Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness, who is Deputy First Minister, said he was shocked at the BBC revelations and is seeking
talks with both Mr Robinson and Gordon Brown. Mr McGuinness was publicly sympathetic when news of the scandal
broke, but his veering towards a tougher line is taken as indicating a calculation that Mr Robinson may not survive the
storm.
Mr Robinson, who has been First Minister for 18 months, is regarded as a pivotal figure in the peace process since he
was prepared to follow the Rev Ian Paisley into government with Sinn Fein.
But the state of the political settlement has appeared increasingly rocky as Mr Robinson has resisted pressure from
almost all points of the political compass to complete devolution by accepting a transfer of responsibility for policing from
London to Belfast.
His reluctance to move on the policing issue was attributed to nervousness about challenges from hardline opponents in
the Westminster general election. Now opponents are speculating that it might instead have at least partly been due to the
family scandal which has just become public but which he knew of for months.
In recent days Mrs Robinson dramatically announced that she was leaving politics. She is currently Westminster MP for
east Belfast, a councillor and a member of the Belfast Assembly. Yesterday there were calls for her to depart immediately
and stop drawing her salaries.
These reflected the fact that, while her husband might have a faint chance of political survival, her behaviour is regarded
as inexcusable.
She had been a friend of Kirk McCambley's father, Billy. Before he died, he asked Mrs Robinson to look after his son. The
BBC programme, Spotlight, revealed that her relationship with Kirk had developed into a sexual one. It said she
suggested to him that he go into a business venture which was partly organised by Castlereagh council, where she is an
alderman.
She is said to have obtained £50,000 from two property developers, to be used to set up the business. She is also said to
have helped approve the McCambley proposal without declaring a financial interest. The council said yesterday it was
investigating.
The young man was interviewed for the programme. So too was Mrs Robinson's one-time political adviser Selwyn Black,
a former Methodist minister, who gave the BBC access to 150 text messages allegedly sent to him by Mrs Robinson.
Among those calling for a public inquiry yesterday were Jim Allister of Traditional Unionist Voice, a hardline critic of Mr
Robinson. He said the issues in the programme must be addressed "with utter transparency and candour".
Ulster Unionist leader Sir Reg Empey called for Mrs Robinson's immediate resignation, saying: "It is clear that Iris
Robinson's continuing position as an MP, Assembly member and councillor is utterly untenable. She should resign all her
positions with immediate effect."
He added: "It is also unfortunately the case that the office of the First Minister is embroiled in these matters. My party will
study the events outlined by the BBC and the very serious allegations that have been made with regards to the conduct of
the First Minister. Inevitably the appropriate authorities will be required to investigate the allegations made against the
First Minister."
* Northern Ireland Secretary Shaun Woodward refused to speculate about Mr Robinson's future.
But he said: "It is a responsibility on everyone in the Assembly to understand that the consequences of allowing the
political process to slide would undoubtedly have an impact on the broader canvas.
"And that if anybody were to be selfish enough to think this is a moment when that can be allowed to be put in the deep
freeze, even some may wish to unpick, they would be extremely irresponsible, foolish and would be playing very, very
dangerous games."
Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Mr Woodward said that the First Minister had to be allowed the opportunity
to clear his name.
But he went on: "I'm very conscious of the fact that while all that is happening, he is First Minister and the business of
devolution, the business of the Executive must go on.
"I hope he will be able to resume the responsibilities as First Minister to ensure that the work of the Executive continues
and that includes the talks on policing and justice devolution." PA
 --- 

I will work with her on specifics and get more info to you. She is an expert on Pakistan more than Haiti but obviously
knows about the threat of child exploitation in these situations. Will see what we can find out.
 --- 

Great. I wonder if the problem has something to do with the fob system. Will let you know what I find out.
Jm
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Vernon just called to invite you and the President to lunch at his home - january 30th in honor of the Alfalfa Dinner.
Lona - Please let me know when you respond and can you get this request to appropriate person on President Clinton's
staff?
Many thanks.
Sent from my mobile device
 --- 

Thought we had already regretted.
 --- 

We have regretted the official dinner and the pre-Alfalfa luncheon that John Hamre organizes -- I believe this is
separate?
 --- 

http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/guest_contributors/article6991697.ece
From The Times
January 18, 2010
Fear of the poor is hampering Haiti rescue
American views rule among the rubble of Port-au-Prince.
That's one reason aid is taking so long to get to those in need
Linda Polman
Aid workers have already baptised the earthquake in Haiti a "historical disaster". It will rate high in the annals of the
humanitarian aid world because of the number of victims and scale of the destruction. But the rescue operation is also
becoming notorious for the slowness with which aid is reaching the victims. Five days after the quake hit, many places are
still largely bereft of international aid.
Not through lack of funds, supplies or emergency experts. Those are all pouring in from dozens of countries. But most of
the aid — and aid workers — seems stuck at the airport.
Rescue teams have pulled survivors from five-star hotels, university buildings, a supermarket and the UN headquarters,
all in Port-au-Prince's better neighbourhoods. In poor areas, where the damage appears much greater, apparently
forgotten victims report on Twitter that they have yet to encounter the first foreign rescuer.
Many aid workers are reported to have orders not to venture out without armed guards — which are not there at all, or
only after long debates with the UN military command. The UN has lost a number of staff in the quake, and is not keen to
risk more lives.
But the Haitian people seem to scare aid workers more than Somali warlords, Darfuri Janjawid or Afghan Taleban.
Frightened Dutch aid workers abandoned a mission without•reaching the collapsed building where people were trapped,
and frightened doctors have left their patients unattended.
The experience of CNN's medical reporter, Dr Sanjay Gupta, is telling. In a makeshift clinic he encountered a Belgian
medical team being evacuated in a UN bus. UN "rules of engagement" apparently stopped them providing security for the
doctors. The Belgians took most of their medical supplies with them, to keep them out of the claws of robbers.
Dr Gupta and his camera team stayed the night, monitored the abandoned patients' vital signs and continued intravenous
drips — and they were not robbed. Some rescuers are leaning so much toward security that they will allow people to die.
The media are not helping. CNN rules in the rubble. "Outside of a military conflict, this is our biggest international
deployment since the tsunami in 2004," according to Tony Maddox, the managing director of CNN International. So the
image of the aid operation being beamed back is primarily Ameridan — and one of the big problems is the American view
of Haiti.
CNN won't stop telling aid workers and the outside world about pillaging (the incidence of which — for the first four
frustrating days at least — did not compare with what happened after Hurricane Katrina) and about how dangerous it is to
distribute food, because of the likelihood of "stampedes".
Nor is the US Government, the biggest player in the aid operation, doing anything to help to relax the atmosphere. On the
contrary. When President Obama said that the US aid effort would be "aggressive" he meant it. The humanitarian
operation is not led by civilian agencies, but by the Pentagon.
Mr Obama ordered 9,000 troops and a fleet of nuclear-powered ships to move in. Victims of the war in Congo (which has
cost five million lives in the past years) and of the genocide in Darfur would love so much American attention — but it is
Haiti's fate to lay in America's backyard and to have been a sore to American eyes for decades already.
One, perhaps even two million Haitians already live in the United States, but more try to come. Every day dead Haitian
refugees wash up on Miami's sunny beaches. Haiti is a constant pain for US taxpayers who feel that the billions of dollars
that have been poured in should have at least lifted the country out of its position as one of the poorest places on Earth.
Even when the earthquake struck, investigations were taking place into the fate of several million dollars of aid funds, sent
to victims of a hurricane that hit Haiti in 2008, that have disappeared.
Furthermore, to the horror of many godfearing Americans, voodoo is an officially recognised religion in Haiti. And, perhaps
above all, Haitians are poor and black. In the view of some Americans those two add up to ... murderous gangs.
The invasion of soldiers and humanitarian workers at the airport of Port-au-Prince reminds me of the American military
invasion of Haiti authorised by President Clinton in 1994. I'd lived and worked there for almost two years as a
correspondent for Dutch radio. There were 20,000 soldiers but they were surprisingly nervous about what reception the
unarmed Haitians might have in store for them.
It turned out to be a wave of slum dwellers streaming to the air and sea port to greet the American guests. In abundant
conga lines they snaked through the city, tea cosies on their heads to express just how happy they were. "Liberte! Merci
Beel Cling Dong!" they shouted. A terrified American GI, still a teenager, saw the mass of pitiful creatures approaching
him, and asked me if the tea cosies were "some kinda voodoo?". He calmed down only when a line of BMWs and
Mitsubishis appeared and filed past to watch the invasion.
Where the soldier came from, the owners of vehicles like these are respectable citizens. In Haiti, they are likely to be the
ones smuggling drugs and making US aid dollars disappear. The good guys in Haiti are the defenceless people in the
slums. For Western city dwellers, this is the world turned upside down. "Back! Back!" the soldier shouted, aiming his
weapons at the good guys.
The rescue teams that stay put at the airport are one reason why we still don't really know what is going on. Seventy
survivors had been pulled from the rubble so far, the International Red Cross said on Sunday. That's 14 rescues per day
as a joint result of the 1,739 international specialised rescue workers that are there. That number would surely jump if
some of the professional equipment that they brought was made available to the countless groups of local people
desperately digging for victims with their bare hands, day and night.
Let's hope that the food distributors worrying about their safety know that yesterday hundreds of people in Port-au-Prince
dropped to their knees praying outside a warehouse where workers for the agency Food for the Poor had announced that
they would be distributing rice and beans. The crowd allowed children and the elderly to go first in line without having
guns aimed at them first.
Linda Polman's War Games: The Story of War and Aid in Modern Times will be published by Penguin in April
 --- 

I will prepare for your signature. Thanks!
 --- 

Kelly, Craig A <KellyC@state.gov>
Monday, January 18, 2010 9:39 AM
H; Valenzuela, Arturo A
Re: Venezuela
Madam Secretary:
I will be in touch with Judith, RI et al.
Best,
Craig
 --- 

Dear all:
Otero, Maria <OteroM2@state.gov>
Monday, January 18, 2010 9:41 AM
H; Slaughter, Anne-Marie; cheryl.mills
Fuchs, Michael H; Mauldin, Caroline P; Schonander, Carl E; Jones, Kerri-Ann
Re: Water
To update you, at G we have been working on water and World Water Day (the event planned takes place at the
National Geographic Building), since I am taking on water as the key issue I am/will working on. I sent S a memo on
water in December outlining our plans. Note that we are mandated to report to Congress annually as part of the "Water
for the Poor" Act.
I have met with Kerri-Ann, with OES "water" staff in the last weeks to address this and also with several regional bureau
A/S (Carson, Feltman, Blake so far) on water in the respective regions.
There is a great deal of interest on their part and we have started outlining specific initiatives that we could focus on.
We've also met on the Nile Basin Initiative, with World Bank "experts" leading NGOs, McKinsey, etc. I've also spoken to
Raj (USAID allocated about $480 million in FY 2009 to water, and MCC about $500 million) but of course he has been
unable to focus on this. And Cheryl and I haven't spoken yet about Food Security/water.
Best,
Maria
 --- 


 --- 

Will do.
Valmoro, Lona J <ValmoroU@state.gov>
Monday, January 18, 2010 10:43 AM
H; Otero, Maria; Slaughter, Anne-Marie; cheryl.mill
Fuchs, Michael H; Mauldin, Caroline P; Schonander, Carl E; Jones, Kerri-Ann
Re: Water
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 

Hillary:
I had planned to meet with you on water after returning from Bolivia's inauguration - there is so much we can do.
Haiti is beyond what one's spirit can absorb. I am grateful that my former colleagues from ACCION, missing until friday,
are safe.
Best,
Maria
 --- 


 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Monday, January 18, 2010 11:26 AM
H
MINUSTAH document
RELEASE IN PART B5
 --- 

Kelly, Craig A <KellyC@state.gov>
Monday, January 18, 2010 11:52 AM
H
RE: Venezuela
Best,
ck
SBU
This email is UNCLASSIFIED
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Monday, January 18, 2010 2:26 PM
H; Doug Band; Justin Cooper; cheryl.mills
Mills, Cheryl D
Re: Glad you're there
Diane Reynolds; MMezvinsky
Just leaving the hospital.
Really rough and sad.
Mark Paul and others doing the Lord plus 10 work
I sent Keen an email re no security.
Troops just arrived so the hopefully they will be able to keepb doctors there tonight around the clock.
Cdm
Sent: Mon Jan 18 14:22:08 2010
Subject: Glad you're there
PI give me periodic updates about what you're seeing and doing. Love to all.
 --- 

GTIP is working on it. Also, meant to say that Jillian works on Iran, not Pakistan.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Will do.
 --- 

Rob will do a note for you to sign.
 --- 

Button, Case <ButtonWC@state.gov>
Monday, January 18, 2010 9:38 PM
Re:
B6
Secretary-
Thank you so much for the well wishes. I have enjoyed working for you (everyday since
and am grateful for another year supporting the work you do.
Thank you again for the note. See you in HST!
Case
 --- 

http://www.publicpolicypolling.com/pdf/PPP_Release_MA_45398436.pdf
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 9, 2010
INTERVIEWS: DEAN DEBNAM 888-621-6988 / 919-880-4888 (serious media
inquiries only please, other questions can be directed to Tom Jensen)
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE POLL: TOM JENSEN 919-744-6312
Senate Race Competitive
Raleigh, N.C. — The race to replace Ted Kennedy in the US Senate is looking like a toss
up, with Republican Scott Brown up 48-47 on Martha Coakley.
Brown is benefiting from depressed Democratic interest in the election and a huge lead
among independents for his surprisingly strong standing. Those planning to vote in the
special election only report having voted for Barack Obama in 2008 by a 16 point
margin, in contrast to his actual 26 point victory in the state.
That decline in turnout from Obama voters plagued Democratic candidates for Governor
in Virginia and New Jersey last fall. Beyond that 66% of Republicans say they're 'very
excited' about turning out while only 48% of Democrats express that sentiment.
Brown leads 63-31 with independents and is winning 17% of the Democratic vote while
Coakley receives only 6% support from GOP voters. Both candidates are relatively
popular, with 57% viewing Brown favorably to only 25% unfavorable and 50% with a
positive opinion of Coakley to 42% negative.
Those folks planning to vote in the special election are actually opposed to Obama's
health care plan by a 47/41 margin and only narrowly express approval of the President's
overall job performance 44/43.
"The Massachusetts Senate race is shaping up as a potential disaster for Democrats," said
Dean Debnam, President of Public Policy Polling. "Martha Coakley's complacent
campaign has put Scott Brown in a surprisingly strong position and she will need to step
it up in the final week to win a victory once thought inevitable."
PPP surveyed 744 likely Massachusetts voters from January 7th to 9th. The margin of
error is +/-3.6%. Other factors, such as refusal to be interviewed and weighting, may
introduce additional error that is more difficult to quantify.
Complete results are attached and can be found at www.publicpolicypolling.com.
 --- 

Madam Secretary,
Attached and below, please find a list of the issues I cover.
Thanks,
Mike
MEMORANDUM
TO: Secretary Clinton
FROM: Mike
CC: Cheryl, Jake
SUBJECT: Issues I Cover
In addition to the day-to-day projects and follow-up items I work on with Jake, I cover the following issues:
Long-Range Policy
O Helping Cheryl and Jake plan for, and follow-up on, the bi-monthly policy meetings
O Working with bureaus on end-of-year reports follow-up
O Keeping up to speed on issues discussed at Deputies meetings for weekly memos
O Helping shepherd speech ideas and providing feedback on drafts
Substantive Issue Areas
o Human rights/democracy
O Sudan
O Mexico
o Cookstoves
O Yemen-related issues
O Export controls
O Cybersecurity
O Terrorist finance issues
O Military families issues
O Climate change
• Dialogues and partnerships with Nigeria, South Africa, Angola, Indonesia, Brazil
State Department Reform
• Report reform: Working with Rich Verma and his team on reforming state's system for producing annual reports
to Congress
• QDDR-related assistance
 --- 

Yes
 --- 

Will do.
 --- 

Google has been wierd about this whole deal but this whole Espo experience has been fascinating. Some companies will
say absolutely no for months (Qualcomm, Bloomberg, J&J) and then pop out of nowhere and say yes. Others like AU are
in for nd then decide not to give us a penny. Therefore we have to keep bugging these guys.
We WILL raise the money. We are at $54M+ (this wk Hawaii came in for $500k and Bloomberg LLC and need $7M
more. Ideally we would like to raise $10 to 11M to cover any overruns (it's getting more expensive because the US was
so late we are paying more now to build it quicker).
Where it will come from?
A- Right now we have three big companies talking to us in the range of
Haier may go from If two or three come thru big we are done.
each - Monsanto, Disney, and Oracle.
B- We also have a number of other companies like Invitrogen, Hormel, Mattel and Major League Baseball in the
range.
C-Interestingly the cities and states are going to their private funders and trying to raise money on their own to
promote their jurisdictions - Chicago, Houston, Georgia, Montana, TN. (In the past, over 20 states participated with
public funds but current budgets are tough). Maybe a chat w Mayor Bloomberg would be worthwhile. For example, I
spoke to the University of WA and they will probably get benefactors to cosponsor at $250k making them the only
university represented.
D-We have approached groups like Pharma and the fashion industry thru Diane von Furstenburg to get them to bundle
smaller companies and both have agreed to do it. I met w DVL and she wants you to know that she is very excited about
helping (they are in therM range).
E- We have talked to the elusive Chamber of Commerce again about getting SME's to raise $2-3M in smaller increments.
They are contemplating it.
Finally the two obvious industries that are not involved are the banks (and we know why) and the insurance companies
who are starting to look into the market over there.
Anyway, I did not mean to go on and on but that's where we stand and these are the potential areas to tap. We'll get
there.
On your last Q - I too heard that
 --- 

Its not like a traditional trade show/expo with specific booths. It is more subtle and the pavilion folks would negotiate
creatively on what they want..
Depdg on amount, they get on the big wall of contributors, we show multiple scenes of NYC in the shows and displays,
they can use the wonderful VIP lounge/auditorium to have NYC day or week at the Expo - the rockettes, Broadway goes
to China, commercial diplomacy, mtgs betwn NYC and Chinese officials, .getting SME's access to China etc. We could
really be creative.
LA, San Fran, San Antonio already in, chicago on way...
As you know the general theme is "Better Cities, Better Lives". How can NYC not be repped? They cam brag about their
innovations.
 --- 

I am currently out of the office on official travel and will be checking e-mail periodically. If you need immediate
assistance, please call 202-647-9572..
 --- 

I've already met with him but will follow up again. Have an idea I think he may be able to help with.
Safe travels.
JM
 --- 

As per your suggestion, I spoke with Roy Spence over the weekend and will be meeting with him on Wednesday to
discuss candidates for the International Information programs (IIP) position. Will let you know how it goes.
JM
 --- 

This is the role we discussed
cdm
 --- 

Balderston, Kris M <BalderstonKM@state.gov>
Monday, January 11, 2010 12:43 PM
Abedin, Huma
Ben Feder
 --- 

Haiti that you asked for
Read all the way down (2 emails)
Cdm
 --- 

January 11,2010
For: Hillary
 --- 

Importance: High
FYI
 --- 

http://www.cbsnews.com/blogs/2010/01/11/politics/politicalhotsheet/entry6084818.shtml?tag=stack
January 11, 2010 6:30 PM
Obama's Approval Rating Dips to New Low
(CBS)
President Obama's job approval rating has fallen to 46 percent, according to a new CBS News poll.
That rating is Mr. Obama's lowest yet in CBS News polling, and the poll marks the first time his approval rating has fallen
below the 50 percent mark. Forty-one percent now say they disapprove of Mr. Obama's performance as president.
In last month's CBS News poll, 50 percent of Americans approved of how the president was handling his job, while thirty-
nine percent disapproved.
Analysis: The Irony Behind Obama's Poll Numbers
Mr. Obama still receives strong support from Democrats (eight in ten approve of his performance), but his approval rating
among Republicans is only 13 percent. More importantly, Mr. Obama's approval rating among independents has declined
10 points in recent months — and it now stands at just 42 percent.
Domestic issues — and not his response to terrorist threats - appear to be driving the president's approval rating
downward.
Just 41 percent now approve of his handling of the economy, which Americans say is the nation's most pressing issue.
Forty-seven percent disapprove. The president's marks on handling health care, with reforms still under debate in
Congress, are even lower — just 36 percent approve, while 54 percent disapprove. Both of these approval ratings are the
lowest of Mr. Obama's presidency.
Meanwhile, both parties in Congress receive even lower marks than the president on handling health care. Few
Americans think the reforms in Congress hit the right note on expanding coverage, lowering costs and regulating the
health insurance industry. (Read more on the health care poll results)
(CBS)
The president receives slightly higher ratings for his handling of the war in Afghanistan and the threat of terrorism than on
domestic issues. Forty-six percent approve of Mr. Obama's handling of Afghanistan, and 52 percent approve of how he is
handling the threat of terrorism.
While some Republicans have criticized the president and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano's responses
to the attempted Christmas Day terror attack, most Americans don't share their opinion.
In the poll, 57 percent of Americans approve of the way the Obama administration has responded to the attempted attack,
and 29 percent disapprove. Views are highly partisan — 75 percent of Democrats approve, while just 41 percent of
Republicans and 55 percent of independents do.
More Findings from the Poll:
•Fear of another terrorist attack has increased since the attempted attack on a Northwest Airlines flight from Amsterdam
on Christmas Day. Now, 26 percent think another attack on the United States within the next few months is very likely, up
from 12 percent just before the latest incident. This is the highest percentage that has felt an attack was very likely since
March 2003, just after the U.S. invasion of Iraq.
•While most Americans (56 percent) have at least a fair amount of confidence that the government will protect its citizens
from future attacks, just 15 percent are very confident. In the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, more expressed confidence.
•Few Americans —just 19 percent - think U.S. intelligence agencies are doing all they could to monitor the actions of
suspected terrorists. Seventy-six think they could be doing more.
•Most Americans support conducting full body scans on travelers using a digital x-ray machine, a device some airports
are now using. Seventy-four percent agree these machines should be used because they provide a detailed check for
hidden weapons and explosives and reduce the need for physical searches. Just 20 percent think these machines should
not be used because they would produce an image of a passenger's naked body and are an invasion of privacy.
•Over half of Americans think the U.S. should continue to keep the Guantanamo Bay prison open. Thirty-two percent
think it ought to be closed and the prisoners there transferred somewhere else.
•The American public continues to volunteer the economy and jobs as the most important problem facing the country (44
percent), with health care a distant second (14 percent). In the wake of the attempted terror attack on Christmas Day, the
percentage that cites terrorism as the most pressing issue has risen to seven percent from zero percent early last month.
•The public's overall assessment of the condition of the national economy remains grim — 82 percent of Americans say
the economy is in bad shape. Looking ahead, 31 percent of Americans think the economy is getting better, while 19
percent think it is getting worse. Forty-nine percent now say the economy is staying the same.
 --- 

Yup. Will do
 --- 

Record
See below
 --- 

<<Call Sheet for S on Mayor Bloomberg.docx>> Attached is the call sheet you requested for Mayor Bloomberg. Thnx for
doing this.
Kris
 --- 

I talked to johnnie and relayed all info below to you. But so that u also have.
 --- 

Thx kris
Will let you know when she calls
 --- 

FYI.
 --- 

Statement by the President on the Earthquake in Haiti
"My thoughts and prayers go out to those who have been affected by this earthquake. We are closely monitoring the
situation and we stand ready to assist the people of Haiti."
Background information: The President was informed of the earthquake at 5:52pm. The President asked his staff to
make sure that embassy personnel are safe, and to begin preparations in the event that humanitarian assistance is
needed. The Department of State, USAID and the United States Southern Command have begun working to coordinate
an assessment and any such assistance.
###
 --- 

fyl
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Tuesday, January 12, 2010 7:57 PM
Mills, Cheryl D; H
Sullivan, Jacob J; Crowley, Philip J
Re: From PauP
Americans? Or local staff?
 --- 

For your approval.
 --- 

FYI:
Jan 12, 2010
» Mobile Home » Top Stories
Inside the Reid eruption
By Mike Allen & Glenn Thrush I 1/12/10 @ 12:19 AM EST
Harry Reid isn't talkative. But the Senate majority leader chatted freely with the two disarmingly charming book authors
who came to his office at the Capitol shortly after the 2008 election.
They — and their tape recorder — were soaking in his reminiscences about the wild campaign that had turned a
backbencher in his caucus into president of the United States.
Reid wasn't on guard — perhaps because he'd been told by his staff that the meeting would be "off the record,"
according to a person with knowledge of the exchange.
Although Reid is a master of the Senate's mysterious inside game, he's often botched the outside game because of what
one colleague calls a "penchant for saying things without a filter."
But Jim Manley, Reid's senior communications adviser, wasn't too worried as he and his boss sat down with John
Heilemann of New York Magazine and Mark Halperin of Time magazine — two veteran reporters who were working on
what their publisher had billed as "a sweeping, novelistic, and ultimately definitive portrait" of the 2008 race.
Like virtually every Washington political insider, Manley had a long and warm relationship with Halperin, the longtime
political director for ABC News who once set conventional wisdom in Washington with "The Note."
Maybe Reid and Manley — thinking back to their many candid exchanges over the years — simply assumed that
Halperin wouldn't burn him or his boss. Or maybe he expected that Halperin would check back with him on any quotes
he planned to use?
Whatever they were thinking, they were wrong.
Reid was talking about the reasons why, even though he had publicly professed neutrality in the vicious Democratic
primaries of 2008, he had secretly encouraged then-Illinois Sen. Barack Obama to challenge another member of his
caucus, then-New York Sen. Hillary Clinton. And amid all the talk of Obama's oratorical gifts, he let slip something else:
Obama could win the White House because he was a "light-skinned" African-American "with no Negro dialect, unless he
wanted to have one."
The authors write in "Game Change," published this weekend, that Reid had made the remark "privately." They did not
say he had said it to them.
As a chagrined Reid telephoned political allies in the Senate and civil rights community to shore up his support this
weekend, he made it clear that he felt burned by the authors.
In the book's"Authors' Note," they wrote: "All of our interviews — from those with junior staffers to those with the
candidates themselves — were conducted on a 'deep background' basis, which means we agreed not to identify the
subjects as sources in any way. We believed this was essential to eliciting the level of candor on which a book of this sort
depends."
Heilemann said on MSNBC's "Morning Joe": "We had a very clear agreement with all those sources that our interviews
would be on deep background.... Our ground rules are ... that we won't identify any of our sources as the sources of the
material. But we said to them all very clearly that if they put themselves in scenes of the book, if they were uttering
dialogue to people in the book in part of a scene, that we would identify them as the utterer of those words."
Halperin added: "There's no one we talked to for the book who we burned in any way, or violated any agreement with."
Manley, a Capitol Hill veteran who also had worked for the late Sen. Ted Kennedy, had been responsible for monitoring
the interview and dealing with issues arising from it.
But he didn't tell anyone else in Reid's inner circle about the inflammatory remarks their boss had made; because of his
good relationship with the authors, he assumed that the quotes would never be made public — at least not without his
knowing about it first.
Manley declined comment on this story-- and wouldn't confirm if the interview took place.
On Friday at 10 p.m. — half a year after the interview — The Atlantic's Marc Ambinder e-mailed Reid's staff with
questions about a "light-skinned" candidate without a "Negro dialect."
In the second-guessing that followed, Capitol Hill veterans said there was no way that such inflammatory words from a
Senate majority leader would remain off the record, even if that had been the arrangement.
But because Manley had not sounded an internal alarm, he and the rest of the damage-control squad were caught flat-
footed by Ambinder's e-mail, several people close to the situation told POLITICO.
"They could have had weeks to prepare for this or to try to convince Halperin not to run it," said a Democrat who
participated in some of the damage control.
Now the staff had been blindsided with a revelation that, if mishandled, could be politically fatal. Manley and other
aides worked until 2 a.m. Saturday to draft Reid's carefully written apology, which emphasized his record on African-
American issues.
"I deeply regret using such a poor choice of words," the 90-word statement began.
Later on Saturday, Manley helped lead a counteroffensive, calling White House press secretary Robert Gibbs, a friend
from his days as communications director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, to set up an apology call
between Reid, at home in Searchlight, Nev., and Obama back in Washington.
In a stunning "Statement by the President" e-mailed to reporters at 3:55 p.m. Saturday, Obama said: "Harry Reid called
me today and apologized for an unfortunate comment reported today.... As far as I'm concerned, the book is closed."
Relieved to have the president's solid backing, Reid's aides decided that their toughest challenge would be to prevent
any prominent African-American Democrats from attacking Reid too harshly — or calling for his resignation.
Reid's team correctly anticipated that Republicans would demand his head. Keeping that criticism from becoming a
bipartisan drumbeat was the key. The team calculated that as long as the attacks looked like partisan shouting, Reid
would benefit.
Aides say their boss quickly understood the danger and spent much of Saturday working a call list of about 30 prominent
African-Americans across the country. On the calls, he apologized for his words and argued that the book's main
takeaway should be that he had quietly supported Obama over Clinton, long before those made his feelings public.
Among those he called were the Rev. Al Sharpton; longtime civil rights leader Julian Bond; Rep. Barbara Lee (D-Calif.),
chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus; political consultant and talk-show fixture Donna Brazile; House Majority
Whip Jim Clyburn (D-S.C.); Wade Henderson, CEO of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights; and Hilary Shelton,
director of the NAACP's Washington office.
The extent of the damage to his already shaky reelection chances in Nevada won't be known until November. But by
Monday, Reid believed the Washington storm was passing. From his home in New York, Sen. Chuck Schumer telephoned
Reid in Nevada and offered to organize a letter of support from all the Democratic senators.
Reid decided that was unnecessary. He had confidently concluded that for now, at least, he had won the inside game.
 --- 

Am cits
 --- 

Here you go:
 --- 

Roger.
 --- 

Latest below
We did a series of interagency calls from 7pm - 11pm.
Raj going out on am shows - potus will announce him as point for coordinating our disaster assistance.
We will start search and rescues teams at sunlight (w/no heavy equipment getting folks out will be hard).
We have requests for hel from Irish, canadian tai
David lindewall is doing good job.
See b/1.
Cdm
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 

Importance:
FYI
High
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI
We have not announced the amount raised.
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 

CDM & Raj live on CNN (ch 14)
 --- 

We are all watching thx.
 --- 

Thanks for the note. Would love to follow up on Pakistan and also have another idea I'd like to talk to you about. By copy
of this email I am asking Jenn Golden from my office to find a time to meet. Hope to see you soon.
JM
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Wednesday, January 13, 2010 4:10 PM
FW: Good Job!
fyi
 --- 

fyi
 --- 


 --- 

FYI - see Michele message
Forwarded message
 --- 

Fyi - from your ambassador in papua new guinea.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Thursday, January 14, 2010 6:37 AM
Public number
You can give out a number for the public to call for questions or information on Haiti.
1-888-407-4747
For foreign leaders, the Ops number of is best.
 --- 

FYI — I will limit Haiti emails to major fyi information for you.
 --- 

Yes, Ma'am, China ratified in 1996.
 --- 

rshah
 --- 

III add him to your grid
C.
 --- 


 --- 

INTERNATIONAL COORDINATION
• (U) Colombian President Uribe intends to travel to Haiti January 17, according to press. His government
will also send a naval hospital ship. (Rendon News Alerts)
 --- 

Salvation Army)on NPR saying he is upset because they are running out of supplies and
he keeps being told they are in the air.
Yes
While we have control of airport — the Haitians are dictating the priority of landing of planes and the document did not
get signed today b/c at meeting the issue did not get resolved (or medical supply issue).
On with Ken now — getting ready to try calling Preval with Ken
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI —
POLITICO
Boehner chief of staff dies at 46
By: Patrick O'Connor
January 10, 2010 01:40 PM EST
Paula Nowakowski, the longtime chief of staff to House Republican Leader John Boehner,
died unexpectedly Saturday night, according to the leader's office. She was 46.
"It is with profound sadness and shock that I announce the passing of Paula Nowakowski,
my longtime chief of staff, trusted aide and friend, who died suddenly last night," Boehner
said in a statement early Sunday afternoon. "Words cannot adequately express the sorrow
and disbelief I and every member of our team are grappling with today in the wake of this
stunning news."
A Boehner aide said the cause was an apparent heart attack.
President Barack Obama and Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) were among those who
called Boehner Sunday to offer their condolences on Nowakoski's death.
"The entire Capitol Hill community is shocked and saddened by the sudden passing of
Paula Nowakowski," Pelosi said in a statement. "As Chief of Staff to Republican Leader
John Boehner, Paula earned the respect not only of her Leadership and Conference, but
all House Members on both sides of the aisle. She served Leader Boehner both in his
current position as well as previously at the Committee on Education and the Workforce
with great distinction.
"Paula was a thorough professional who loved the House and worked in a constructive
and bipartisan fashion to implement policies to help the Congress function efficiently. On
behalf of the entire House, I express our deep sadness to Paula's family, friends and our
colleague, Leader John Boehner."
"Paula had some of the finest qualities a public servant can have: she was committed to
advancing the cause of freedom, she cared deeply about the people she served, and she
was a patriot," said Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY.).
"On behalf of her senate colleagues, I pass on my condolences to her family, Leader
Boehner and his staff, and the whole House family for this tragic loss of our friend."
It would be hard to overstate Nowakowski's role in Boehner's tight-knit office. She has
worked for the Ohio Republican almost continuously since 1995, when she joined his staff
as communications director for the Republican Conference.
In the years since, she has worked as staff director for the Education and Labor
Committee and served as his chief of staff since he returned to the leadership in early
2006. She briefly left Boehner's side in 1998 after he lost the conference post following a
tough election for Republicans but rejoined him in 2001 when he assumed the
chairmanship of the Education and Labor Committee.
Along the way, she counseled Boehner on just about every decision he made and often
served as an enforcer of sorts for the collegial Republican leader. It would be hard to find
any chief of staff on Capitol Hill who maintained a closer relationship with her boss than
the one she shared with Boehner.
Aides said Sunday that Boehner's office and extended network of former colleagues,
known to many as "Boehner-land," were collectively shocked by the news.
"We will remember Paula as she would want to be remembered — as a tireless worker,
faithful friend, rabid Detroit sports fan, whip-smart strategist, warrior for freedom and
devoted Catholic who counted President Ronald Reagan and Pope John Paul II among
her greatest heroes. She will never be replaced or forgotten," Boehner said. "I ask for your
prayers for Paula's family."
©2009Capitol News Company, LLC
FD HIDDEN DIV
Tmt Washington ost
NEWS! POLITICS I OPINIONS! BUSINESS I LOCAL I SPORTS I ARTS & LIVING I GOING OUT GUIDE I JOBS I CARS I REAL ESTATE
'SHOPPING
Paula Nowakowski, Rep. Boehner's chief of staff, dies at 46
By Martin Weil
Washington Post Staff Writer
Monday, January 11, 2010; B04
Paula Nowakowski, 46, chief of staff for House Minority Leader John A. Boehner, was found dead Jan. 10 at
her home in Alexandria.
No official cause of death was available. Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for Boehner (R-Ohio), said it
appeared that Ms. Nowakowski died of a heart attack.
A longtime Hill aide, and Boehner's staff chief since 2006, Ms. Nowakowski was named by the Capitol Hill
publication Roll Call to its 2009 list of the "Fabulous Fifty" staff members. The accolade recognized her savvy,
her clout and her access to the top people in Congress.
Ms. Nowakowski, an avowed conservative, was highly regarded by leaders of both parties.
She was praised by Boehner and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).
"It is with profound sadness and shock that I announce the passing of Paula Nowakowski, my longtime chief of
staff, trusted aide, and friend, who died suddenly," Boehner said in a statement.
"Words cannot adequately express the sorrow and disbelief I and every member of our team are grappling with
today in the wake of this stunning news," Boehner said.
Pelosi called Ms. Nowakowski a "thorough professional who loved the House and worked in a constructive and
bipartisan fashion to implement policies to help the Congress function efficiently."
According to WhoRunsGov. corn, a Washington Post Co. Web site, Ms. Nowakowski grew up in St. Clair
Shores, Mich., and studied English at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.
She told Politico of being made more conservative by the campus "rise of the loony left," citing "wacky, wacky
stuff," which shaped her politics.
According to a reference book on congressional aides, she worked for the Republican National Committee in
the late 1980s and early 1990s, then joined the staff of the House Republican Conference. After two years as a
public affairs vice president of the American Insurance Association, she worked from 2001 to 2006 as staff
director of the House Committee on Education & the Workforce. A Boehner aide said she worked for him at
both the Republican Conference and the Education Committee.
Pelosi's staff chief, John Lawrence, who was Ms. Nowakowski's Democratic counterpart on the education
committee, said they transcended political differences to "work in a very collegial way to strengthen the House
itself." He called her "a great professional."
After the GOP lost its House majority in 2006 , Ms. Nowakowski said she experienced "the seven stages of
grief," according to the Almanac of the Unelected 2008, a reference on Hill staffers.
"You don't want to be a compliant minority," she said of the party's new status, "but you have to adjust your
expectations."
In his statement, Boehner called Ms. Nowakowski "a tireless worker, faithful friend and rabid Detroit sports
fan.
Survivors include her longtime companion, Michael Smith, her mother, a brother and a sister.
C 2010 The Washington Post Company
 --- 

REPUBLIC, AND ON THEIR WAY HOME
Importance:
Love th cg
 --- 

STATEMENT OF SECRETARY CLINTON
The Passing of Victoria DeLong
This morning I spoke with the family of Victoria DeLong, the Cultural Affairs Officer at our Embassy in Port-Au-Prince
who lost her life in the earthquake. I expressed my sincerest condolences on behalf of the men and women of the State
Department and the American people. This is one tragedy among so many. The United Nations has suffered grevious
losses. And the Hatian people have endured unimaginable heartbreak. For the State Department, we have lost one of
our own. Victoria was a veteran Foreign Service Officer who worked tirelessly to build bridges of understanding and
respect between the people of the United State and the people of Haiti. She served her country with distinction and
honor, and she will be sorely missed. Victoria's friends and colleagues at the Embassy are working day and night to
support vital relief and recovery efforts, and our thoughts, our prayers, and our deepest thanks are with them as well.
Along with the military personnel, the search and rescue teams, and all the aid and relief workers now deploying, they
represent the unwavering commitment of the United States to stand with Haiti in its hour of need and in the hard days
and years to come. My heart is with the DeLong family today, and with all those in Haiti and around the world who have
lost loved ones and friends in this disaster.
###
 --- 


 --- 

8:25 am ARRIVE State Department
8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am OFFICE TIME
10:30 am Secretary's Office
10:30 am DROP-BY w/BRIAN ATWOOD
10:40 am Secretary's Office
10:50 am DEPART State Department *En mute White House
10:55 am ARRIVE White House
11:00 am NSC MEETING w/POTUS
12:00 pm Situation Room
12:05 pm DEPART White House *En route State Department
12:30 pm PHONE CALL w/PETER ROBINSON, FIRST MINISTER (T)
Secretary's Office
12:45 pm PHONE CALL w/MARTIN MCGUINNESS, DEPUTY FIRST
MINISTER (I) Secretaty's Office
1:00pm PHONE CALL w/ARLENE FOSTER, ACTING FIRST MINISTER (1)
Secretary's Office
1:15 pm PHONE CALL w/REG EMPEY (T)
Secretary's Office
3:30 pm PHONE CALL w/ HOUSE REPUBLICANS
Secretary's Office
Tbd OFFICE TIME
Secretary's Office
Time Tbd DEPART State Department *En route Private Residence
Time Tbd ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

Just called Huma's line for you and asked you to call him back when you are finished at the White House.
Lauren
 --- 

This is a good suggestion from Jillian Burns in S/P....to make sure that children (and wonen) don't become targets of
traffickers, as happened in Pakistan.
 --- 

FY/
 --- 


 --- 

POLITICO Breaking News:
Rep. Vic Snyder (D-Ark.) announced tonight that he will be retiring at the end of his term, citing the difficult political
environment that he would have faced to win an eighth term in the House.
 --- 

Importance: High
FYI Below.
FYI — I spoke to Lady Catherine Ashton who called to 1) wish you well on this trip and express her gratefulness that you
are traveling; and 2) ask if you might be willing to call her Sunday morning to give her a read out of your trip b/c she has
a briefing in Brussels and having a first hand report from you will allow her to forestall a trip to Haiti in the next week.
cdm
 --- 

I think she may do an earlier call
 --- 


 --- 

Not sure who they were but fine to do 1pm - I'll make sure it works.
 --- 

We told roberta 1pm works
Will offer ashton 12 for ashton so you are not rushed Lona says Cathedral isn't until 6pm if u decide to go. She has done
nothing about it.
 --- 

We are also bringing the following ngo representatives on the plane with us.
They have infrastructure on the ground so we are just giving them a ride there. Ngos are concern worldwide, catholic
relief services, food for the hungry and world vision.
 --- 

Take a look — a reminder of the trauma our workers have confronted.
 --- 

We are setting you up to meet with UN tomorrow - it will be Mulet (he is ne Heda Anabi) and we also will have UN
General - Floriana Peixoto, and we'll bring Keen and Luck (or Callahan) to the meeting.
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Adding raj as well.
 --- 

I will be traveling today without access to my email. If you need to reach me urgently please contact Nora Toiv.
Toivnf@state.gov o
Thank you!
 --- 

I am traveling overseas and only have sporadic access to my email. If you need immediate assistance, please call State
Department Operations at 202-647-1512 and ask for Nora Toiv who can assist you.
cdm
 --- 

Welcome back. I changed my plans and will be back in DC this morning. I have meetings between 9 and noon but will
be available any time in the afternoon today or tomorrow and can work around your schedule. After spending several
hours on the phone last night I wanted to come back and attend to some of the logistical coordination issues.
 --- 

rshah
RELEASE IN PART
B5,B6
 --- 


 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Jerry, as you may recall, was Guiliani's homeland security guy in NYC and became B6
one of the world's experts. He also worked for Clinton Admn and helped with disaster relief (including earthquakes)
around the world. He called me today with some suggestions (some of which may be moot), so I asked him to put them
into a memo. Here it is, for what it's worth:
I think the fundamental issue is that no one seems to be in charge and no
one person has been tasked with trying to pull all of the pieces together
into a short term and long term plan. Obviously in the short term, search
and rescue and food and water are the main priorities. There seems to be
little communication between the various areas where people have congregated
and a central command post where agencies can call or radio for additional
supplies including food, water and medical.
I don't recommend DoD be put in charge of this. They rarely have the kind of
touch that brings together all the necessary agencies under one roof. I
would set up a central command that has representatives from all federal
agencies in one place. There is no reason things should be this
disorganized. I would break the island into grids and assign one person to
be the coordinator for each of the grids. That person will be responsible
for all activities within their grid and will report activities to the
island on-scene coordinator. We should get a radio company like Motorola to
set up temporary towers and give the State Department several hundred radios
so everyone involved in the response is able to communicate with the command
post and with each other.
I think one of the most important roles for DoD is to provide security for
the rescue teams and medical teams. They also should be responsible for the
operation of the airport, for off loading planes and for scheduling all
incoming flights so there is no lost time waiting for planes to land. I also
think DoD should be responsible for airlifting supplies that are requested
by each one of the grid coordinators. Additionally, the helicopters should
be used to move critical patients to the hospital ship on the way and to the
aircraft carrier currently on station. At least once a day, the coordinator
assigned by the President and the Secretary of State should be responsible
for getting situation reports from all agencies on site, particularly
regarding food and water, security, medical and search and rescue.
The lack of command and control is allowing the situation to become more
chaotic rather than more coordinated. I believe that if the Secretary were
to talk to the other nations involved through the UN, they would be
supportive of better coordination.
Bottom line is that there is no order to the operation and you need strong
people in there who can speak on behalf of the President and the Secretary
and get things under control quickly.
I hope this is helpful. If you or the Secretary have any questions please
feel free to call me on my cell We leave for Tokyo at 7:15 am
tomorrow and transfer to a United flight due back in DC at 2:30 pm tomorrow.
Please give the Secretary my best regards. I hope to see you soon.
B6
 --- 

FYI below on French statement on Haiti and U.S. support:
Paris, January 19, 2010
COMMUNIQUE
During their telephone conversation last week, the President of the Republic and President Obama expressed the
resolute commitment of our two countries in Haiti, and decided to combine their efforts in order to deal with the urgent
humanitarian situation and to respond, in the future, to the enormous reconstruction requirements.
The French authorities have, since then, been entirely satisfied with the cooperation between our two countries and,
beyond that, the continuous coordination between the Crises Centers of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs
and the U.S. Department of State. They want to pay tribute to the United States' extraordinary mobilization efforts in
support of Haiti and the vital role it is playing on the ground.
 --- 


 --- 

A draft of the year-end report is coming your way with Huma. It definitely needs your magic touch. I've done my best to
craft something readable (and useful) in the midst of all the craziness.
Derek has read and commented. Cheryl will give her comments tomorrow. I'd be happy to circulate it to others who
you would like to have weigh in.
Look forward to discussing tomorrow.
 --- 

Importance: High
FYI — I think we should do
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Not now - calling then going to bed. B6
XO
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

730 Afghan FM Rasoul
745 Maldivian President Nasheed
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 7:20 AM
FW: It Never Rains.....
fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Already doing so; will intensify.
PJ
 --- 

importance: High
Jake, Jack is to call Palau's president iater today, presurnabiy to unveii and push a new free assoclation aid proposal. The
arocosai can succeed or fail depending upon how it is handled and flexibiiity in working out cletaii.
The amount has been discussed as $250 million .thrki FY24 -- and ; think that -.amount could be made to work -- but it is
handicapped by a bl,",sin to take out of that 1;) to $18.75 rri foi- the other two freely es,
.:dciated states and count ';')13.3 m
already appropriated funding. Most
important is a willingness to sit down and mutually work out terms.
As I've said, I think the Compact Review can succeed if there is real
dialogue vs. 'This is it' proposais. It is also critIcai to
understand Pres. Toriblong astutely up a small tf,arn of key Palau inadiers for the Rciviw to ensure that a proposai
can sain fuiianpnPval in Palau and he and they are i,ivorkins in complete. unison. Jeff
Jeff
Jeffrey L. Farrow
 --- 

Your speech tomorrow should be crystal clear, expJcit and tough on China and spell out the economic consequences not
iust for the Chinese and their future but for the economic future of ordinary working people in the USA and their stake in
successful diplomacy on the issue: and why their future is the basis of our national interest. The future of the middle class
irz the future of the United Sc the interests of the middle CialSS are the heart of the national interest, etc. Sid
 --- 

Morales blasted the U.S. efforts in Haiti today. See below. Craig Kelly and I agree that you should consider a call to
Morales. Perhaps we could discuss tomorrow.
 --- 

Should have been faxed
Checking now.
 --- 

It's on its way with the book but someone will fax now.
 --- 

Book will be there in 10 minutes.
 --- 

Delivery has failed to these recipients or distribution lists:
tillemnantsOstate.gov
The recipient's e-mail address was not found in the recipient's e-mail system. Microsoft Exchange will not try to redeliver
this message for you. Please check the e-mail address and try resending this message, or provide the following diagnostic
text to your system administrator.
Diagnostic information for administrators:
Generating server: MSWASHDCIB01.washdc.state.sbu
tillemnants@state.gov
#< #5.1.1> #SMTP#
Original message headers:
Received: from vance3.state.gov ([10.4.16.249]) by
MSWASHDCIB01.washdc.state.sbu with Microsoft SMTPSVC(6.0.3790.3959); Wed, 20
Jan 2010 22:30:18 -0500
Received: from mail.c1intonemail.com (ool-18bbeabb.static.optonline.net [24.187.234.187])
by vance3.state.gov with ESMTP id o0L30mHNO11693;
Wed, 20 Jan 2010 22:00:48 -0500
Received: from CLNTINET08.clinton.local ([fe80::dObb:23d3:f75e:4993]) by
CLNTINET08.clinton.local ([fe80::d0bb:23d3:f75e:4993%10]) with mapi; Wed, 20
Jan 2010 22:30:16 -0500
 --- 

Added here.
 --- 

On the phone with Bader,
 --- 

little has changed in substance or language.
Still working on it, though.
 --- 

No problem.
 --- 

Thanks very much. On your questions:
Also, pls be sure the text is carefully proofread since there are a number of typos and missing words.
Absolutely -- sorry about that.
Thanks,
Tomicah
 --- 

You'll have a new draft when you wake up. I think it's getting close but can use one more pass from you.
 --- 

Madame Secretary:
Pardon the early morning email, but I am responding to your invitation to send you our thoughts on Haiti. You
probably have already had all the thoughts below, but I wanted to put mine in writing. First, and most
important, thanks for what you have done thus far, which has been remarkable. One week in, we have reacted
most admirably to the Haiti crisis. State and AID are firmly in the lead; you, Cheryl, Raj, and Jake have done a
heroic job; and the most urgent humanitarian challenges seem in hand. Although I have not participated in
many of the departmental conversations about Haiti, based on my years thinking about that country. I wanted to
offer suggestions that might prove helpful on the next round of interrelated challenges:
, —
Best,
Harold
Harold Hon61.1 Koh
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Sullivan, Jacob J <SullivanJJ@state.gov>
Thursday, January 21, 2010 7:52 AM
H
Re: speech
 --- 

Importance: High
Loretta will be at speech.
 --- 

We have a lot of people in meeting but we talked and will bring them to end of meeting so she can specially meet them.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Pis raise Afghan women's participation in the London meeting. I'm looking at the draft document to come out of the
London conference and there's no mention of women. I'm working on a few suggestions and going to meet shortly with
one of Miliband's colleagues.
Melanne S. Verveer
Ambassador at Large for Global Women's Issues
U.S. Department of State
2201 C Street NW, Room 6805
Washington, DC 20520
Tel: (202) 647-7283
Fax: (202) 647-7288
VerveerMS@state.gov
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

nice
 --- 

At the foot of the master.
I learned.
cdm
 --- 

FYI. I'm following up with Kurt to get his thoughts.
 --- 

Froman has encouraged this call. I will also check in with Bader.
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

H: Jim Fellows told me he was at your speech and thrilled by it. He's just returned from three years in China. He didn't
expect you would be so frank. Here's his post on The Atlantic website. Sid
http://jamesfallows.theatiantic.comiarchives/2010/01/a_momentous_40_hours.php#more
Xr
07:
Hi!!ary Clinton's "Internet freedom speech iVian
A momentous 40 hours, leading to Clinton/China/Internet
21 Jan 2010 04:12 pm
Apart from two obvious pieces of momentous news in the past day-and-a-half -- the new junior Senator from
Massachusetts, and the new ckv V. V5-
rvi,-
,
,
c.:! (by which I mean today's lamentable, straight-party-line Supreme Court
ruline
;that removes limits from direct corporate underwriting of political campaigns) -- there is one other event today that
will have big ripple effects. i mean SecState Hillary Clinton's speech this morning about "Internet Freedom," mentioned
;:lere and with a prelude discussion
I'm not going to take time for a thorough gloss of the speech. Instead I highly recommend reading the full text, lette, or
watching the official video, .'tere. And for now some of the main points while listening (and noting main points down in real
time with the handy '
uiveaSccibe, pen.)
- In contrast to the dreamy Internet optimism of a decade or so ago -- I'm not naming names, but I remember! -- when
many people imagined that info technology, by itself, would undermine oppression and bring the world together, Clinton
started off with a very astringent reminder that this technology, like others, was neither good or bad in itself and is already
being used in both helpful and destructive ways:
"Amid this unprecedented surge in connectivity, we must also recognize that these technologies are not
an unmitigated blessing. These tools are also being exploited to undermine human progress and political
rights. Just as steel can be used to build hospitals or machine guns, or nuclear power can either energize
a city or destroy it, modern information networks and the technologies they support can be harnessed for
good or for ill. The same networks that help organize movements for freedom also enable al-Qaida to
spew hatred and incite violence against the innocent. And technologies with the potential to open up
access to government and promote transparency can also be hijacked by governments to crush dissent
and deny human rights."
And a very nice pivot out of this section, effective because it's so blunt and plain:
"On their own, new technologies do not take sides in the struggle for freedom and progress, but the
United States does."
- Underscoring the "this is a big deal" tone of the speech, she enumerated the "Four Freedoms" that FDR proclaimed in
1941, as part of the struggle for the world's future, and said there were a comparable set of Four Freedoms for the
Internet age. Check out the speech yourself for details.
- The China surprise: the speech was a more frontal challenge to Chinese internet and overall censorship policy than I
expected, and than I recall in other US-China interactions in a very long time. For instance, early in the speech, an
itemization of the places where suppression is getting worse:
"In the last year, we've seen a spike in threats to the free flow of information. China, Tunisia, and
Uzbekistan have stepped up their censorship of the Internet. In Vietnam, access to popular social
networking sites has suddenly disappeared. And last Friday in Egypt, 30 bloggers and activists were
detained."
Tunisia, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Egypt -- this is not the grouping of countries that the Chinese government, in its recent
sense of rise to superpower status, is used to being lumped with. Compared to the US as a financial power, OK;
overtaking japan in economic size, yes; being a crucial player in environmental negotiations.., all that is one thing.
Bracketed in the same sentence with Tunisia and Uzbekistan is different. Sentences like this don't appear in formal, big-
deal SecState addresses by accident.
Other passages to the same effect:
"As I speak to you today, government censors somewhere are working furiously to erase my words from
the records of history. But history itself has already condemned these tactics....
"Those who disrupt the free flow of information in our society or any other pose a threat to our economy,
our government, and our civil society. Countries or individuals that engage in cyber attacks should face
consequences and international condemnation...."
And then the Google section itself.
I had wondered whether the speech would mention Google by name -- and had reason to think it might not. (Main
argument forleavina it implicit rather than referring directly to the Google case: in the company's ongoing efforts to find a
"il
lvineyiftaiv_in" acceptable way to remain in China, rather than a lose-lose-lose permanent split, its not necessarily a help
to have the U.S. government standing officially by its side. ) But the way Sec. Clinton introduced the point was significant:
as a proxy for China's own ability to H.to,tentiai and sustain its economic rise:
"To use market terminology, a publicly listed company in Tunisia or Vietnam that operates in an
environment of censorship will always trade at a discount relative to an identical firm in a free society. If
corporate decision makers don't have access to global sources of news and information, investors will
have less confidence in their decisions over the long term. Countries that censor news and information
must recognize that from an economic standpoint, there is no distinction between censoring political
speech and commercial speech. If businesses in your nations are denied access to either type of
information, it will inevitably impact on growth.
"Increasingly, U.S. companies are making the issue of internet and information freedom a greater
consideration in their business decisions. I hope that their competitors and foreign governments will pay
close attention to this trend. The most recent situation involving Google has attracted a great deal of
interest. And we look to the Chinese authorities to conduct a thorough review of the cyber intrusions that
led Google to make its announcement. And we also look for that investigation and its results to be
transparent.
"The Internet has already been a source of tremendous progress in China, and it is fabulous. There are
so many people in China now online. But countries that restrict free access to information or violate the
basic rights of internet users risk walling themselves off from the progress of the next century. Now, the
United States and China have different views on this issue, and we intend to address those differences
candidly and consistently in the context of our positive, cooperative, and comprehensive relationship."
There's a lot more in the speech, including about terrorism, disaster relief, religion, etc -- but it's there for the reading.
Back to the to-do list for me now.
Peirmalink
.Share This
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Thursday, January 21, 2010 11:23 PM
Valmoro, Lona J; Abedin, Huma
FW: Dartmouth
You are getting a memo on universities.
FYI on this from Jim Kim
 --- 


 --- 

Huma Abedin
Friday, January 22, 2010 7:36 AM
H; 'ValmoroU@state.gov.
Re: Commencements
Yes we agree
Lona wanted to make sure you knew what was out there in case
are one or 2 we want: to discuss with u.
There
 --- 

Exactly -- in case you wanted to factor any into May/June planning.
Lona Valmoro
t to the Secretary of State
(direct) B6
 --- 

8:25 am PRESIDENTIAL DAILY BRIEFING
8:30 am Secretary's Office
8:30 am DAILY SMALL STAFF MEETING
8:45 am Secretary's Office
8:45 am DAILY SENIOR STAFF MEETING
9:15 am Secretary's Conference Room
9:15 am WEEKLY MEETING w/REGIONAL BUREAU SECRETARIES
10:00 am Deputy Secretary's Conference Room
10:15 am MEETING w/S&ED TEAM
10:45 am Secretary's Outer Office
10:45 am STAFF MEETING
11:15am Secretary's Outer Office
11:15 am OFFICE TIME
12:00 pm Secretary's Office
12:00 pm BILATERAL w/MOLDOVAN PM VLADIMIR FILAT
12:30 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
12:30 pm MCC SIGNING CEREMONY w/GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA
12:50 pm Benjamin Franklin Room, 8th Floor
1:00 pm MEETING w/HAITI TEAM
1:30 pm Secretary's Office
1:30pm OFFICE TIME
2:00pm Secretary's Office
2:00 pm REMARKS TO THE WHA CHIEFS OF MISSION CONFERENCE
2:30 pm George C. Marshall Conference Center
2:30 pm BILATERAL w/CANADIAN FM LAWRENCE CANNON
3:00 pm Secretary's Conference Room *Press avail following.
3:05 pm PRESS PRE-BRIEF
3:10 pm Secretary's Outer Office
3:15 pm JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/FM CANNON
3:35 pm Madison Room
4:00 pm MEETING w/UNESCO DIRECTOR-GENERAL IRINA BOKOVA
4:15 pm Secretary's Office *Official photo in anteroom preceding.
4:15pm MEETING w/MIKE FUCHS AND CHERYL MILLS
4:30pm Secretary's Office
4:30 pm OFFICE TIME
5:00 pm Secretary's Office
5:05 pm PRIVATE MEETING w/ SARA EHRMAN
5:15 pm Secretary's Office
5:20 pm DEPART State Department *En route Washington National Airport
5:40 pm ARRIVE Washington National Airport
6:00 pm DEPART Washington National Airport via US Airways Shuttle #2182
En route New York. NY
7:24 pm ARRIVE New York LaGuardia Airport
7:30 pm DEPART LaGuardia Airport
En route Private Residence
8:15 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
FYI:
4:00 pm SWEARING-1N CEREMONY FOR LESLIE ROWE, US AMBASSADOR TO MOZAMBIQUE Treaty Room
4:00 pm SWEARING-1N CEREMONY FOR RICK BARTON, REPRESENTATIVE OF THE U.S. ON THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL OF
THE UNITED NATIONS Benjamin Franklin Room
 --- 

They're still not as good as the DPRK at these barbs.
Amb Zhou saw Kurt and Jeff yesterday. Will download.
 --- 

Slaughter, Anne-Marie <SlaughterA@state.gov>
Friday, January 22, 2010 1:13 PM
H
Mills, Cheryl D; Sullivan, Jacob J
Lady Ashton
I just want to underline how valuable and important it is for you to be building the relationship with her that you are.
 --- 

This is an AFP report from today.
Also, GTIP is working on a memo for you and Cheryl about child trafficking dangers in Haiti.
Trafficking fears as Haiti children go missing
Posted 5 hours 47 minutes ago
Updated 5 hours 46 minutes ago
Slideshow: Photo 1 of 2
The UN has warned countries not to step up adoptions from Haiti in the wake of the disaster. (AFP: Matthew
Marek
United Nations officials say children have gone missing from hospitals in Haiti since the devastating January 12
earthquake, raising fears of trafficking for adoption abroad.
"We have documented around 15 cases of children disappearing from hospitals and not with their own family at
the time," said UNICEF adviser Jean Luc Legrand.
"UNICEF has been working in Haiti for many years and we knew the problem with the trade of children in
Haiti that existed already beforehand.
"Unfortunately, many of these trade networks have links with the international adoption market."
The agency said it had warned countries during the past week not to step up adoptions from Haiti in the
immediate wake of the quake.
However several are fast-tracking adoption procedures already under way, including Belgium, Canada, France,
Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and the United States.
Mr Legrand said the situation was similar to the aftermath of the tsunami in Asia five years ago.
Trafficking networks were springing into action immediately after the disaster and taking advantage of the
weakness of local authorities and relief coordination "to kidnap children and get them out of the country".
Rupert Colville, a spokesman for the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said child
enslavement and trafficking in Haiti was "an existing problem and could easily emerge as a serious issue over
the coming weeks and months".
The UN mission in Haiti has stepped up surveillance of roads, UNICEF officials said.
Mr Legrand said there was separate but only anecdotal evidence of people taking children by road to the
neighbouring Dominican Republic and loading children on to planes.
"We have seen over the past years many children being taken out of the country without any legal procedure,"
he said.
"This is going on. This is happening now. We are starting to have the first evidence of that, this is
unquestionable."
He was unable to give details on the 15 missing children or their condition or clearly connect the anecdotal
observations in Haiti's chaos with trafficking.
The cases were documented by social workers and by partner non-governmental organisations working for
UNICEF in hospitals.
- AFP
 --- 

If you have the time or inclination, it would be really nice if you could send an email to Tom icah, or phone him. He went
for almost 100 hours without sleep to get the speech done, under unusually trying circumstances. He deserves some
recognition for grace under pressure and a job well done.
 --- 

that many firms are owned by nations. Sid
http://blog.newsweelocom/blogs/thegaggle/archive/2010/01/22/should-foreign-corporations-spend-money-on-u-s-political-
candidates.aspx
Posted Friday, January 22, 2010 1:05 PM
Newsweek
Should Foreign Corporations Spend Money on U.S. Political Candidates?
Krista Gesaman
Foreign businesses might be the real winners in Citizens United v. Federal Elections Commission, the landmark case that
allows corporations and unions to spend limitless amounts of money on presidential and congressional political
campaigns. A majority of large businesses are now owned by foreign entities, and this means international corporations
could pour tons of money into the United States political scene, potentially swaying the political climate.
The biggest questions with this ruling is the scope of the term "corporation," says Edward Foley, law professor at the Ohio
State University College of Law and director of the election-law program. Does the high court want this decision to apply
to foreign corporations as well as domestic ones, he ponders? The truth is, the court didn't make a decision one way or
the other.
Foley best explains the potential issues by talking about the electronic, video, and communication giant, Sony. The
corporation is headquartered in Japan, but a large number of its shareholders reside in the United States. In fact, people
can even buy and trade Sony's stock on the New York Stock Exchange. The issue is whether this corporation, with strong
ties to a foreign country and the United States, should be permitted to independently contribute money to presidential and
congressional campaigns.
The court sought to expand First Amendment protection for corporations, but did it really mean to promote the free flow of
ideas from Russian or Chinese corporations, Foley asks? Justice John Pau! Stevens focused on the same concerns in his
dissenting opinion. The majority's position "would appear to afford the same protection to multinational corporations
controlled by foreigners as to individual Americans," he writes.
This afternoon, President Obama asked Congress to "develop a forceful response" to the ruling. But with Congress
juggling so many other important issues, it's unlikely that a change will be made in the immediate future. This could mean
that foreign cash could be supporting political candidates in next year's congressional midterm elections.
 --- 

I am traveling overseas and only have sporadic access to my email. If you need immediate assistance, please call State
Department Operations at 202-647-1512 and ask for Nora Toiv who can assist you.
cdm
 --- 

Great. Thanks. I know he will appreciate it.
 --- 

The little things go a long way. Thanks for being in touch with him.
 --- 

You're very kind. The delivery was flawless and your idea to focus on the girl rescued from the rubble in Haiti wove it all
together. It was an honor to help out -- and I think we did some real good. Onward, onward...
Best,
Tomicah
Tomicah Tillemann, Ph.D.
Speechwriter
Policy Planning Staff
Department of State
S/P Main: 202.647.2372 I Direct: I Blackberry: urgent calls only)
Fax: 202.647.0844 I Room 7311 (S/P) I 2201 C Street NW I Washington, DC 20520
 --- 

Thanks. Printing for her.
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Friday, January 22, 2010 6:01 PM
FW: haiti comments
 --- 


 --- 

FYI.
Still gathering info
 --- 

Matt passed along the following barebones intel from Lute and Samantha on
groping through the clark on this search):
(he made clear that everyone is
Will let you know if I learn more.
 --- 

FYI:
SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED January 22, 2010
NOTE FOR THE SECRETARY
FROM: G/TIP — Luis CdeBaca
SUBJECT: Child Trafficking in Haiti
G/TIP is gravely concerned about the potential for human trafficking (TIP) in the wake of
the earthquake, both as a result of the displacement of the population and the influx of troops
and aid workers. Even before the earthquake, there were in Haiti up to 300,000 restaveks
(children given away or sold by their parents and enslaved as domestic servants), as well as
reports that members of MINUSTAH used trafficked women in prostitution. In the 2009 TIP
Report Haiti was classified as a Special Case country with governance so dysfunctional it could
not be ranked.
The initial disaster response is focusing on immediate needs of food, shelter, and medical
care, but has thus far not addressed TIP prevention and protection issues. While attention is
being paid to the problems of orphans and adoptees, TIP was not adequately addressed in the
UN's initial flash appeal, so it is unclear which agency in the international system has the lead
on the ground. UNICEF has the child protection lead, UNFPA leads prevention of sexual and
gender-based violence, and IOM is tasked with shelter and camp management. We will work to
remedy, in a subsequent appeal, the omission of TIP from the operational plan.
We are moving to redirect $1 million of program funds that G/TIP has on Hispaniola and to
reprogram an additional $550,000; we will work with PRM to identify other funding
possibilities. Working through existing grantees and other experienced NG0s, it is our
intention to help resuscitate police child protection brigades that already exist in Haiti, to
rebuild capacity of Haitian organizations that protect restaveks, to prevent traffickers in the
Dominican Republic from enslaving displaced Haitians on farms and in prostitution, and to
educate Haitian parents of the risks of giving their children away in this time of crisis. We will
consult with partner agencies to ensure that the U.S. presence does not contribute to
trafficking. It will be important for the Department's messaging to convey our commitment to
fighting human trafficking in both the immediate and long term.
SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

All:
See below for appreciation for all your efforts — congrats and thanks.
Please pass along to whomever I missed.
cdm
 --- 

FYI
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

No problem
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, January 23, 2010 9:26 AM
H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under US
law. S
http://coloradoindependent.com/46462/hugo-chavezs-state-owned-petroleos-corp-set-to-spend-on-your-u-s-election
F
&.1
3.1 4.1)
sr—c"
....e.-swadursooarssustre.tammzionewsmsostor,extuurs-xuAtias.
to .send on your
(in- mined Paerr-lee-- Corn
10101W1194901.1.1.11211...T.M.17,..
. aflgrnit,cnZfl,,,Z010
ti 4
491. 2 sea, r,%
(1,.A
'62 39 • M `4.1P, ‘s.3,Az-Ad:3'4
2:=111
.
. .1”....AILIONIMINSUlt S=WIMOlt.11111111111 2111011=1.19.711
,111221.VOMISSGMAIM1.1.7.1.111M.MVO.Itr...421/1.97.71r.11,111012.1.0
1:4;43y John Tornasic 1/22/10 3:58 PM
Blogging on the Citizens United Supreme Court ruling is more of what we love about the web. It's the kind of typical
collective dissection we have now come to expect but that never really existed before: serious, speculative, arcane, funny,
brilliant, baked, etc. The Sunliaht Foundation b!000inci is predictably good. Paul Blumenthal dips into the multinational
dimension of the new "corporation as full citizen-person" framework, drawing on blogging going on at Neytsweqk and the
CerAer for Pubiic inte'r'.
"Looks like [the Court] might support allowing foreign companies to spend freely in elections in the United States. I guess
this would be the corporate globalization of the U.S. electoral system." So you gotta ask yourself: Who does Hugo Chavez
want for President?
Blumenthal excerpting the Center for Public Integrity:
The Center for Public Integrity looks at this closer and shows what kind of foreign influence we are
looking at:
One prominent examples is CITGO Petroleum Company — once the American-born
Cities Services Company, but purchased in 1990 by the Venezuelan government-owned
Petroieos de Venezuela S.A. The Citizens United ruling could conceivably allow
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who has sharply criticized both of the past two U.S.
presidents, to spend government funds to defeat an American political candidate, just by
having CITGO buy TV ads bashing his target.
And it's not just Chavez. The Saudi government owns Houston's Saudi Refining
Company and half of Motive Enterprises. Lenovo, which bought IBM's PC assets in 2004,
is partially owned by the Chinese government's Chinese Academy of Sciences. And
Singapore's APL Limited operates several U.S. port operations. A weakening of the limit
on corporate giving could mean China, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and any other country
that owns companies that operate in the U.S. could also have significant sway in
American electioneering.
I really can't see Americans being too happy about this.
ha Lithwick reported :rC(' .ate from the Supreme Court as the opinions were being read. She offered this aside:
While Stevens is reading the portion of his concurrence about the "cautious view of corporate power" held
by the framers, I see Justice Thomas chuckle softly.
Was it a disdainful chuckle at the impotence of his colleague? Was it merely a chuckle of disagreement, of good-natured
exasperation? Was it a chuckle at an anachronistic vision of the framers set beside today's modern corporate silicon and
steel behemoths? I doubt he was thinking about Hugo Chavez.
 --- 

sbwhoeop
Saturday, January 23, 2010 9:30 AM
more...
Justice Ginsburg's questions in the Citizens United case to its attorneys focused on foreign owned corporations spending
in US elections. Ted Olson, attorney for CU. told her he opposed congressional restrictions on such spending.
 --- 

I spoke with Arturo this morning about the delegation to Honduras.
They are proposing one of two alternatives: (1) Arturo, Jose F, Craig, and Dan R. or
 --- 

Roger.
 --- 

Yes ops is reaching out to her soon.
 --- 

You must read this -- a Chinese blogger said that the Internet speech "was like a song to his heart."
 --- 

FYI: From one of the folks we hired who had been working with Pierre Louis:
Lessons from the Aceh and Nias Multi-Donor Trust Fund
1. The Government of Indonesia (G01) responded to the Tsunami by issuing a series of government decrees,
and immediately organized both overview and relief efforts to ensure a rational and coordinated
response. The first task was to produce a Damage and Loss Assessment (DLA). The DLA was followed by
a more detailed Master Plan for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (MPRR). The MPRR provided in-depth
sector plans, spatial planning, the governance and supervision arrangements of finances with
considerable attention to how to avoid or minimize corruption. The process behind the MPRR was
consultative, with a wide range of local stakeholders and public offices being heard. The MPRR was
presented on 26 March, only 3 months after the Tsunami.
2. The MPRR was to form the basis for a general three-stage strategy. The Relief phase was originally set to
six months, but was then reduced to three: January- March 2005. The Rehabilitation phase is to run for
about 21 months, through December 2006, and the Reconstruction phase from July 2006 through
December 2009. The MPRR provides a well defined phasing of interventions.
3. The objectives for the Relief efforts were humanitarian relief: rescue; food and medicine; emergency
infrastructure and temporary shelter; and burying the dead. The Rehabilitation phase is to restore
services to minimum level: public services; economic facilities; banking and financial institutions; trauma
treatments; secure land rights; law and order; and temporary shelter. Finally, Reconstruction is to rebuild
the region: rebuilding the economy (production, trade and banking); the transportation,
telecommunications, and social and cultural systems; improving institutional capacity; and housing.
4. The Government set up a ministerial-level agency to manage the MPRR program from Aceh itself, the
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency for Aceh and Nias. The BRR was formally established end April
2005 and became operational early May. The World Bank Board on 30 March 2005 formally established
the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDF) with a Steering Committee comprised of BRR, GOI, donors and civil
society. Having a credible local coordinators was key to success.
5. The EC channels nearly 93% of its funds through the MDF, while only 2.5% of USD 400 million from the
US goes to the MDF. While payments into the fund were slow, disbursements out of it were to begin
with even slower. By October 2005, project agreements for about USD 200 million had been signed, but
only USD 3 million had actually been disbursed. Disbursements picked up the pace thereafter. The delay
was caused by two principal impediments: first, donors were quick to pledge funds, but getting all the
exact written agreements in place took time. This points to the need for donors to be flexible regarding
formal agreements, and accept simple, generic paragraphs that can contribute to speedy resolution of
slightly differing phrasings and concerns. Second, the processing time for project approval and
implementation was a concern. Since the MDF was to have funded projects on-budget, they had to be
implemented by government institutions. This crated bottlenecks.
6. Smaller donors joined because they wished to support the reconstruction efforts in Aceh but do not have
own capacity and often not strong views on how best to pursue this. They want the Bank to assume
fiduciary responsibilities for the funds in a high-risk environment, and also to take a lead in ensuring that
the funds go to prioritized activities. The MDF is thus seen a well-managed bank account with some paid-
for administrative services. However, the all-inclusive Steering Committee made membership large and
to some extent unwieldy, and forced it to discuss both policy and operational issues.
7. The Multi Donor Fund Secretariat has developed an Outreach Strategy that includes regular radio talk
shows, field visits to meet and discuss with beneficiaries and communication through advertisements as
well as a telephone hotline.
8. MDF received praise for engaging the Government of Indonesia (G01) in policy dialogue. The MDF is thus
an entry point for engaging on conditions for sustainability, relevance and impact.
9. Because the MDF does not accept strict ear marking of donor contributions — though it does allow for
preference indications — it means that the funds are freely available for programming according to the
criteria and priorities that the MDF agrees to. Given strong GOI participation, the MDF is seen as the
most successful instrument for harmonization and coordination in an environment that has been
criticized for a lack of coordination. The MDF's Mid Term Review conducted in 2008-2009 found that the
MDF had made a positive contribution to harmonizing donor efforts and to increasing the effectiveness
and efficiency of the reconstruction effort.
10. The MDF did not sufficiently engage the private sector and did not have a coherent job creation strategy.
The MDF lacked executive rights, but GOI and BRR are credited with leveraging a decisive response.
 --- 

US law. S
This is from Justice Stevens' dissent in the Citizens United case:
If taken seriously, our colleagues' assumption that the identity of a speaker has no relevance to the Government's ability
to regulate political speech would lead to some remarkable conclusions. Such an assumption would have accorded the
propaganda broadcasts to our troops by "Tokyo Rose" during World War II the same protection as speech by Allied
commanders. More pertinently, it would appear to afford the same protection to multinational corporations controlled by
foreigners as to individual Americans: To do otherwise, after all, could " 'enhance the relative voice' "of some ( i.e. ,
humans) over others ( i.e. , nonhurnans). Ante, at 33 (quoting Buckley, 424 U. S., at 49). aUnder the majority's view, I
suppose it may be a First Arnendrnpnt problem that corporations are not permitted to vote, given that voting is, among
other things, a form of speech.
http://wvvw.law.cornell.edu/supct/htm1/08-205.ZX.htmi
 --- 

sbwhoeop B6
Saturday, January 23, 2010 4:09 PM
Re: H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under
US law. S
Getting a legislative fix might be a gcod initiative for SOTU. Let the Republicans try to oppose it. S
 --- 

US law. S
Me, too. He shouldn't retire
Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Slackberri
--
 --- 

US law. S
Some groups going for amendment but foreign corps may be low hanging fruit. Don't know, an idea to investigate Sent
via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

US law. S
You have people somewhere who can explore this Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

US law. S
See what harold koh says, just the foreign corp piece Sent via Cingular Xpress Mail with Blackberry
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

The trust fund
 --- 

Services in Post-1[1].doc
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD©state.gov>
Sunday, January 24, 2010 9:41 AM
Sullivan, Jacob J
FW: from GOH - Montreal meeting talking points
See traffic at bottom which Bob Maguire (Haiti expert) sent to Leslie Voltaire (Haiti's rep to WJC Envoy office and UN)
who also forwarded to PM Bellerive.
cdm
 --- 

I don't believe so but Huma would have a better update than I would.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(202) 647-9071 (direct)
 --- 


 --- 

Ruh-roh
Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, January 24, 2010 11:25 AM
On the Ground Intelligence
 --- 

This document in text below is coming up the line to you as material for your trip. This is separate (but related) to what
we discussed earlier today. This focuses on the MDTF, using the tsunami model as a guide.
I also have tasked Jean-Louis to put together a think piece for this evening that we can look at re: the larger issue of
ensuring efficient, effective coordination of: bi-lateral donors investment, MDTF, and private fund/NGO efforts that all
must come together in a coherent fashion. Of not in this memo is fact that in tsunami, there was a GOI reconstruction
plan
See below on the Mu It-Donor Trust Fund
SENSITIVE BUT UNCLASSIFIED January 24,2010
INFORMATION MEMO FOR THE SECRETARY
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Yes it is eikenberry, my automatic spell check make it eugenie!
 --- 

HRC/WJC: Read below - worth the read
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.gov>
Sunday, January 24, 2010 12:05 PM
The Broader Donor Coordination and Accountability
His reference to our ppt was to the donor coordination mechanism
 --- 

He asked you about this when you sat down. The press hangs in the Andrews DV lounge and gets on the plane well
before you, the Air Force must have had Fox on when he was with us.
 --- 

I don't know, people make big deals out of nothing, rather than subscribe to Occam's Razor
I have to look it up but I think you said you never noticed, probably because it's when you're not on the plane
I'll double check
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

Fyi
 --- 


 --- 

Delivery has failed to these recipients or distribution lists:
scwarzericpOstate.gov
The recipient's e-mail address was not found in the recipient's e-mail system. Microsoft Exchange will not try to redeliver
this message for you. Please check the e-mail address and try resending this message, or provide the following diagnostic
text to your system administrator.
Diagnostic information for administrators:
Generating server: MSWASHDCIB01.washdc.state.sbu
scwarzericp@state.gov
#< #5.1.1> #SMTP#
Original message headers:
Received: from vance2.state.gov ([10.4.16.249]) by
MSWASHDCIB01.washdc.state.sbu with Microsoft SMTPSVC(6.0.3790.3959); Sun, 24
Jan 2010 16:09:22 -0500
Received: from mail.clintonemail.com (ool-18bbeabb.static.optonline.net [24.187.234.187])
by vance2.state.gov with ESMTP id o00KfLRIA1013222;
Sun, 24 Jan 2010 15:41:21 -0500
Received: from CLNTINET08.clinton.local ([fe80::dObb:23d3:f75e:4993]) by
CLNTINET08.clinton.locai ([fe80::dObb:23d3:f75e:4993%10]) with mapi; Sun, 24
Jan 2010 16:09:21 -0500
 --- 

SchwartzEP@state.gov
 --- 

It's actually not too far past Richmond/Lynchburg so a late afternoon/evening trip is realistic. We can discuss tomorrow
and give you a recommendation.
Lona Valmoro
Special Assistant to the Secretary of State
(direct)
 --- 


 --- 

Yes. 111 have them for you before you leave State in the morning.
 --- 

Abedin, Huma <AbedinH@state.gov>
Sunday, January 24, 2010 8:30 PM
H
cell. Funeral tomorrow. B6
 --- 

HRC
Attached and below is a concept note for how the donor coordination and leadership for Haiti's reconstruction could be
established, with key being, given Haitian's critical voice. It is modeled after tsunami entity that was created by GOI.
(Doug/Justin — can you get to WJC this evening?)
The assumptions underpinning this approach are at the bottom of the email.
cdm
 --- 

Mills, Cheryl D <MillsCD@state.goy>
Sunday, January 24, 2010 9:40 PM
FW: Doctors report from Haiti
Depressing
See not only Mike's email — really see the incoming one.
cdm
 --- 

FYI
 --- 

fyi
 --- 

Think I may have sent this but interesting insights and overlapping ones.
 --- 

mcgovern
 --- 

Agree - it we also have folks who need hosp care for a period; there are several things like this we should consider Sent
via BlackBerry by AT&T
 --- 

8:10 am ARRIVE State Department
8:15 am BILATERAL w/ITALIAN FOREIGN MINISTER FRANCO FRATTINI
8:45 am Secretary's Conference Room *Official photo in East Hall preceding.
8:45 am PRESS PRE-BRIEF
8:50 am Secretary's Office
8:50 am JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/ITALIAN FM FRANCO FRATTINI
9:00 am Treaty Room
9:00 am DEPART State Department *En route Andrews AFB
9:25 am ARRIVE Andrews AFB
9:30 am DEPART Andrews Air Force Base via Air Force Aircraft Tail #
9:45 am SECURE PHONE CALL WI GEORGE MITCHELL
10:55 am ARRIVE Montreal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport
11:00am DEPART Montreal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport
En route International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
11:35 am ARRIVE ICAO
11:45 am WORKING SESSION PART II: "TRANSITION FROM HUMANITARIAN 12:05 pm NEEDS TO LONGER TERM STRATEGIC
VISION" ICAO Council Chamber
12:15 pm MEETING w/CANADIAN PRIME MINISTER HARPER
12:45 pm Meeting Room, 3r1 Floor *Camera Spray at top
12:50 pm FAMILY PHOTO w/CONFERENCE PARTICIPANTS
12:55 pm Delegates' Lounge
1:00 pm SESSION: "RECONSTRUCTION AND BEYOND: A VISION FOR THE
3:15 pm NEW HAITI" ICAO Council Chamber *Camera Spray at top.
3:30 pm JOINT PRESS AVAILABILITY w/FM CANNON, PM BELLERIVE,
4:00 pm AND OTHERS TBD
4:15 pm MEDIA INTERVIEW TBD
4:40 pm Media Room Tbd
4:50 pm DEPART ICAO *En route Montreal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport
5:25 pm ARRIVE Montreal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport
5:30 pm DEPART Montreal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport via Air Force Aircraft Tail
7:00pm ARRIVE Andrews Air Force Base
7:10 pm DEPART Andrews Air Force Base *En route Private Residence
7:30 pm ARRIVE Private Residence
###
 --- 

Update
Heidi reports from the hospital this morning that Mickey had a quiet night.
Judith Kieffer
Executive Director
Los Angeles Parks Foundation
11973 San Vicente Blvd.
Suite 200
Los Angeles, CA 90049
Office: 310-472-1990
FAX: 310-472-0992
Mobile
 --- 

Agreed--Maura is so smart!
 --- 

Indeed. I'm a berry farmer.
 --- 

Pis get list from Thursday dinner and do TYs. I'd like to sign letters. Thx.
 --- 

Also, pis add Gerry Ferraro to my call list.
 --- 

Raj is off to a brilliant start and thank you for the help you provided him.
We share your assessment of Pakistan's need for a public narrative and better capacity to communicate effectively.
Judith has been working on how we improve our comm work there, and I know you were talking to the Pakistani
Ambassador about helping them. I'm copying Judith and asking that the two of you discuss what we could do given the
very difficult political landscape.
Thx for all your good counsel. We need to follow thru on the campaign for women we discussed some months back. Are
you still assisting Melanne? Let me know what I can do to hurry it along. H
 --- 

I don't think I made any progress. What will it mean if we can't raise the remaining $? Where else can we try?
 --- 

Pis set up appointment for Andy Young to come see me.
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

What else can I do to help?
 --- 

If a city gives $ do they put up display/exhibits?
 --- 

Can you get me transcript of story on NPR this am about how nearsightedness is cause?
 --- 

Can you also send me Rocco's #?
 --- 

That's what I thought too. Can you get that done?
 --- 


 --- 


 --- 

Thanks.
 --- 

That's very nice but you should get it! But, of course, I would accept on behalf of all of us.
 --- 

When can I call him?
 --- 

Can you send me a call sheet for Bloomberg?
 --- 


 --- 

I'm back on the ground, on the way to the house.
 --- 

Esther--Can you tell me if China has signed this treaty?
 --- 

Thx.
 --- 

Can you send me his email address?
 --- 

Pis print.
 --- 

Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Thursday, January 14, 2010 5:54 PM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: Good to see you
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 


 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Army)on NPR saying he is upset because they are running out of supplies and he keeps
being told they are in the air.
 --- 

When can you talk?
 --- 

Yes.
 --- 

I also want to call the head of the Red Cross.
 --- 

Ok to do conf call 1300 Sunday and call w Lady Ashton before that.
 --- 

W/whom? I thought she wanted to speak w me Sunday morning. I just want to do it as late as possible.
 --- 

Very touching.
 --- 

Bill wants me to speak to/meet w Eduard Mulette who will replace head of UN Mission. Do you know him?
 --- 

What a reminder and tribute to our team.
 --- 

; Huma Abedin B6
Mark, emergency room doc, is w Paul Farmer; Pier is his orthopedic surgeon wife. Is there any way to help asap? This
should be the highest priority. Coulc one of the medical teams alreay there move over to help? Could Gen Keen or UN
get the supplies and generators they need to them at first light?
 --- 

Huma Abedin
Also food and water?
 --- 

Jack--
In looking at my schedule, I could talk w you by phone Sunday or Monday, rather than meeting, which would give you
back your Monday and service event. I learned the office will be closed Monday, so I will be working from home. Does
that make sense?
What times would be good to talk tomorrow or Monday?
Thx, Hillary
 --- 

I cannot do either time. We could send Raj or Jack.
 --- 

Also, if they're holding a mtg, I would think they'd want the UN/Bill and he can't go either (it's a CVC thing).
 --- 

He did. Thx.
 --- 

The Canadians said they would do transcript of call so pls ask WHA to obtain one for me.
 --- 

Can you ask WHA to work for times so I can fly up mid morning and return late afternoon. Could I see Frattini next day?
What seems best?
 --- 

If he's coming to London, could I see him there? Also what's status of France?
 --- 

Of course.
 --- 

Since Davos is now about Haiti, do I need to go? Bill is going.
 --- 

Let's talk tomorrow. I'll call you in the morning about two subjects: Haiti and Af-Pak. Is there anything else you want to
raise?
 --- 

That is important. I will work on it--there's a very long and sobering list. Does Jillian have specific ideas?
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

Thx Mike. I'd like to meet w you this week. Pls get a time from Lona.
 --- 

Maria, Anne-Marie and Cheryl,
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Sunday, January 17, 2010 9:53 PM
'oterom2@state.gov'; 'slaughtera@state.gov'; 'cheryl.mills
'FuchsMH@state.gov'
Water
March 22 is World Water Day (who knew?) Could we have a policy ready to announce by then? I have some ideas so
when we all get a chance to breathe, let's discuss. Here's to H20.
 --- 

Ok. Has it gone out yet?
 --- 

Can you talk/meet today?
 --- 

Am on call now so let me know when you can talk later.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, January 18, 2010 8:58 AM
'valenzuelaaa@state.gov'; 'KellyC@state.gov'
Venezuela
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Monday, January 18, 2010 10:00 AM
'KellyC@state.gov'
Re: Venezuela
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Monday, January 18, 2010 10:05 AM
'oterom2@state.gov'; 'slaughtera@state.gov'; 'cheryl.mills
'FuchsMH@state.gov'; 'MauldinCP@state.gov'; 'SchonanderCE@state.gov';
'JonesK@state.gov'; 'ValmoroU@state.gov'
Re: Water
Lona--pls pull together a meeting after Maria gets back on Feb 2 for us to review where we are. Thx.
 --- 

Good. Let's document all of this.
 --- 

Ok. Safe travels.
 --- 

Haiti that you asked for
Great ideas (no surprise). Let's work toward solid proposal maybe to Red Cross and Clinton Foundation since they have
unencumbered $
 --- 

Haiti that you asked for
Pls print.
 --- 

I agree.
 --- 

Ok. Anything else to discuss? Hope you get some sleep.
 --- 

Thx. I'll be ready to discuss tomorrow.
 --- 

I didn't know they were doing operations in the conference room. Can we get some details--and promise new carpet?
 --- 

Dear Anne-Marie,
I was just reading your two wonderful memos on 5/ P accomplishments and the QDDR.
I also want to thank you for a wonderful year of work, creativity, collaboration and progress. I know the start for all of us
was shaky, but we have hit our stride and you are such a valuable member of the team, a generator of ideas, a
conductor of talent and even a necessary nudge from time to time. Thank you for making this journey w me.
I will schedule the S/P visit and photo as soon as I can. Until we see one another next week, be well and take care
(please!)
All the best, Hillary
 --- 

Thx for sending the emails about the Nigerian. We are working on all of the issues raised.
I hope you, Jackie and the boys (men??) have a happy, healthy, prosperous 2010. I will look forward to seeing more of
you in the upcoming months.
All the best, H
 --- 

Dear Jim--
I hope you and your family have had time to enjoy the holidays together and that 2010 brings blessings to you all.
Thanks for all your great work, support and advice this past year, and I'm looking forward to the year ahead.
All the best, Hillary
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 2, 2010 6:14 AM
'verveerms@state.gov'
Re:
And, the very best new year to you, and the Verveer tribe. Thanks for all you are doing and for working w me again. B6
We have a lot of big challenges and many opportunities ahead of us and I'm excited to get started again. See you next
week!
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 2, 2010 6:08 AM
'stalbott
Re: message from India -- and from down the street
Strobe---Happy New Year! Namiste! All good wishes for 2010. Thx so much for the message from four generations of
Talbotts and Ramesh--quite a combo. When I see ou next ho efull soon I will ive ou the back rou
re/interactions w him
uc ove to you an t e c an, Hillary
P.S. Can you confirm my email address thru this--i don't want you wandering around cyberspace!
 --- 

Harold---
First, Happy New Year to you and your family and thank you for all of your great work this past year. I am looking
forward to the year ahead.
Second, what can we do about Judge Urbina's ruling
example, what is the likelihood of success on appeal? Can the US file a civil action against the company? Pay
compensation to the victims? What other options do we have?
For B5
All the best, H
 --- 

Thanks, as always.
 --- 

Rob--
First, Happy New Year and thank you for all of your great work this past year. It is a treat having you on our team, and
I'm looking forward to an even better 2010. Also, pls let me know if you have any ideas about how we could improve our
processes and products. Thanks for everything.
 --- 

First, Happy New Year to Jen and Stern clan. Hope to talk soon about our way forward for 2010.
I received the following email from Jairem Ramesh over the holidays. I intend to respond in kind but wanted to run by
you for advice.
Thx. HRC---
Dear Madam Secretary of State:
It was wonderful catching up with you in Copenhagen. The opportunity to interact with President Obama and you at the
very last minute to salvage the Copenhagen Accord at the US-BASIC Summit Meeting was fantastic and unforgettable for
me personally. I am still reeling from that historic 75 minutes!!
With greetings for Xmas and best wishes for the New Year,
With warmest regards,
Jairam Ramesh
 --- 

First, Happy New Year to Jen and Stern clan. Hope to talk soon about our way forward for 2010.
I received the following email from Jairem Ramesh over the holidays. I intend to respond in kind but wanted to run by
you for advice.
Thx. HRC---
Dear Madam Secretary of State:
It was wonderful catching up with you in Copenhagen. The opportunity to interact with President Obama and you at the
very last minute to salvage the Copenhagen Accord at the US-BASIC Summit Meeting was fantastic and unforgettable for
me personally. I am still reeling from that historic 75 minutes!!
With greetings for Xmas and best wishes for the New Year,
With warmest regards,
Jairam Ramesh
 --- 

Jake--I hope you and the Sullivan clan had a glorious and joyous holiday and that you're revved up for 2010! Thanks for
all you did to make this past year a successful launch. Now, the hard work starts as we try to deliver. But, it's no
hyperbole to say you are a joy to work. Onward--and upward! H
 --- 

Pis add:
Marsha Lauffer --but I think she's moved to Florida so ask KPK if she has another #
Stephanie Minor and Jack Mannion; she's the new mayor of Syracuse
Sen. Kit Bond to discuss his book The Next Front
Paul Farmer
Add Sec Ken Salazar--note the Arctic
Jon Bon Jovi--TY
Jo Luck
Cong. Dianne Watson
Kirsten Gillibrand--cybersecurity
Marvin Hammlisch
Martha Stewart
Robert Hunter--omit from the end and move up
Sec Sebelius
Ed Koch
Dorothy Height
Pls remove from list the following:
Thomases
Corzine
Engel
Kenney
Newsom
Webb
Allida Black
Chavez
Schneider
Mutombo
Loida Lewis
Winifred Greene
Also, we have to decide what to do w the "Fan Club" and tell Ruth Love and Rosemary. Should we invite them to lunch?
Also, whatever happened w
 --- 

Thx. Here are a few more--
 --- 

Take off--
Bendheim
Destito
Latham
Suozzi
Brian Roberts
 --- 

Rich---Thanks for all you did to make the past year a successful one, I hope you and your family will have a happy and
healthy new year. I'm looking forward to 2010!
Here's some questions and I'm copying Jake so he can help w the followup--
Right before I left, Kirsten Gillibrand called to discuss her cybersecurity bill. She wants to draft it so it favors State. I told
her we would connect her up w the right person who would call her to discuss in the new year. Who should that be in
your shop or elsewhere? Pis let me know so I can call and tell her.
When I was in Kabul, the Aga Khan told me he had given a "roadmap" to stability in Afghanistan and wanted me to see
it. That's all I know; can you track it down?
 --- 

Monica--I hope you had a wonderful holiday season and thank you for all of your help this past year. You've been a life
saver. I'm looking forward to 2010 being even better.
Here are a few things as we start the year--
I'd like to work w you to prepare a menu for Jason. Also does he give me a monthly bill for the food he buys and
prepares for me?
Could you or he buy skim milk for me to have for my tea? Also, pls remind me to bring more tea cups from home.
Also, pls try to get me a copy of the Human Rights Watch report titled "We Have the Promises of the World: Women's
Rights in Afghanistan."
Can you give me times for two TV shows: Parks and Recreation and The Good Wife?
 --- 

There will be an inauguration in Uruguay in Feb or March. Pls find out exact date.
Also I told FM Sikorsky I would attend Community of Democracies mtg in Poland this summer. He said we could pick
date. Do you have any more info?
 --- 

AMS mentioned Maria's edits. Here's email from her w specifics.
 --- 

Ok. Can you call me?
 --- 

Good. Thx.
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

Sorry. But I'm up now if you want to call.
 --- 

When will I get it? Can it be faxed to house?
 --- 

Will I get speech soon? Can yo fax it to house?
 --- 

PIs print.
 --- 

Importance:
H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Thursday, January 7, 2010 6:52 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan
2009-12-31 Lewis Department Notice.docx; 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan.docx;
2009-12-31 Lewis Department Notice.docx; 2009-12-31 Lewis Work Plan.docx
High
Pls print.
 --- 

Ok. Is Raj coming tonight?
 --- 

I want to send the development speech as delivered w a note from me to the appropriate Members of Congress
(authorizing, appropriating, leadership, others?). I can sign the letters anytime before I leave for Asia/Pacific on Monday
am. Thx so much.
 --- 

We should try to reschedule call. The press statements explain a lot.
 --- 

We should try.
 --- 

Can you also put people on domestic radio, including talk shows getting out info and answering questions?
 --- 

Sen. Tester--Pls ask someone on Michele Bond's team to call Jamie Wise on Sen. Tester's staff to explain our orphan
procedures. The Senator said he had about 15 families who had gone thru the adoption process.
Pls add Stephanie Miner and Jack Mannion to a guest list for a future event at State.
Also, Jack Rosen still wants a mtg sometime in the future. So ask Lona just to add him to a list but not schedule it.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, January 20, 20108:36 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Morales
 --- 

Do you know when it will arrive?
 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 10:30 PM
'sullivanjj@state.gov'; 'tillemnants@state.gov'
Re: Speech ETA?
Thank you TT for a very good speech. I have a few questions:
Also, pls be sure the text is carefully proofread since there are a number of typos and missing words.
 --- 

Jake--
What's your take on the impact of this version?
 --- 

Do you have his email address? The email I sent to you both came back undelivered.
 --- 

I'd like to invite two EUR staffers--Jeremy Shapiro and Siddharth Mohandas-- who wrote a good memo about US-EU to
come by and meet Lady Ashton tomorrow. Or even sit in on the mtg if ok w Phil Gordon.
 --- 


 --- 

Ok.
 --- 

When I get my new table in place, pls arrange for the round table to be moved into Cheryl's office; just the table, not the
chairs. She and I discussed what else could come out of her space. Thx.
 --- 

And well-deserved. You're a rock star!
 --- 

Let me know what you find out. Probably need to talk w Bader and Froman too.
 --- 

Pls print.
H <hrod17@clintonemail.corn>
Friday, January 22, 2010 6:14 AM
'JilotyLC@state.gov'
Fw: H: early review. Sid
 --- 

Another good idea.
 --- 


 --- 

Importance: High
Pls print.
 --- 

Shall we wait until we make decisions
 --- 

I want to debrief you on my call w Davutogla and discuss strategy. Pis try to read the memcon before we meet. Thx.
 --- 

image003.jpg
As predicted.
 --- 

I did once before speech and will do again. Thx to all.
 --- 

image003jpg
Pls show to Cheryl.
 --- 

image003.jpg
Fyi
 --- 

The idea of a statement as requested below is a good one.
 --- 

TT (As prepared)--Thank you for all you did to make the speech yesterday so effective and powerful. We've gotten many
positive comments and laid a solid foundation for future action.
Please get caught up on sleep! All the best, Hillary
 --- 

I have to find time to meet w Rasmussen while I'm there. Maybe 20 minutes but I will give him whatever time he wants.
 --- 

I prefer (1) and they can all stay the next day for meetings if possible.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, January 23, 2010 3:51 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under
US law. S
This is unbelievable. Or maybe totally so given the forces at work.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com >
Saturday, January 23, 2010 4:09 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under
US law. S
Good for him. I wish he were 50 instead 90!
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 23, 2010 4:15 PM
'sbwhoeop
Re: H: FYI: Any foreign nation or leader with a front company becomes a "person" under
US law. S
Not sure there is a legislative fix. Haven't read the opinion yet. May require constitutional amendment.
 --- 

US law. S
Agreed.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, January 24, 2010 10:49 AM
Huma Abedin
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: Yang
 --- 

Remind me who Bob McGuire is.
 --- 

Who? I thought Eikenberry.
 --- 

I just saw an article he wrote in USA Weekend claiming we had FOX on our airplane screens. What is he talking about?
He makes a big deal out of it.
 --- 

But why did he make such a big deal out of it? And what did I say when he asked?
 --- 

What is Eric Scwarz's email?
 --- 

Nora--
Cheryl has emailed dozens of memos about Haiti to me this weekend. Can you please print them and organize them in
chrono order for me for my trip tomorrow or send to Lauren so she can do? Thx.
 --- 

Who's Jim?
 --- 

Really good ideas. But remind me who McGuire is.
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

We should help students whose education has been interrupted finish here or in French speaking countries. See story
below.
 --- 

Thx so much.
 --- 

Mark posted several postings on HuffPost from Haiti. Pls print them all for me. Thx.
 --- 

Pls print.
 --- 

For Claire, the special assistants and Joe?
 --- 

That is so gratifying! Thx for all your encouragement.
 --- 

Pls print for me.
 --- 

Ok. I'm forwarding you more background from Shaun via Sid.
 --- 

Here it is. Also, would be good if I could start calls now.
 --- 

Of course. I will send a letter and welcome you,
I'm copying Rob Russo so he can work w you to draft the letter.
This is very exciting.
to DC. The closer the better!
 --- 

I want to do dinner but discuss invites w me first. Thx.
 --- 

Pls follow up.
 --- 

Anything else going on?
 --- 

What is her family life complexity?
 --- 

Nora--Pis tell Cheryl to call me back on my berry # which Ops has. Thx.
 --- 

Later is fine.
 --- 

Can you call my berry?
 --- 

Well, as I thought, this bill has legs and looks like it's about to start running. Also, I thought the QDDR would be done
much sooner than Fall. Let's discuss this weekend.
 --- 

Let's discuss Monday.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Friday, Janua 29, 2010 3:31 AM
'cheryl.mills ; 'millscd@state.gov'; Doug Band B6
Fw: Haiti
Fyi.
 --- 


 --- 

That's the result of your leadership and a new model of engagement w our own people. Onward!
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 30, 2010 8:58 AM
'millscd@state.gov.
Re: CVC
 --- 

Welcome news. Pls keep me updated w what you hear. Thx.
 --- 


 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, January 30, 2010 5:39 PM
'millscd@state.goy'
Re:
 --- 


 --- 

Sounds real--cross your fingers. Let me know what you hear.
 --- 


 --- 

That is very welcome news. Let's hope it actually holds til Monday. Thx for helping keep me informed along the way.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Saturday, Janua 30, 2010 9:57 PM
'sbwhoeo
'sullivanjj@state.gov'
Re: H: BREAKTHROUGH IN NI TALKS! Sid
Also, I'm copying Jake Sullivan so we can arrange a time for Shaun's call tomorrow. Thx again.
 --- 

Should I make a statement in briefing room on Monday? What about Sid's comment that Shaun would want to talk to
me tomorrow?
 --- 

I did get it. Did you just get mine w questions about tomorrow and Monday?
 --- 

I will definitely talk to Shaun
anytime after noon. Just let me know what works.
 --- 

Actually, I can also make it work before noon if he prefers by moving other calls around. Just let me know. Thx.
 --- 

Thx but did you see the photos of my shoe falling off as I reached the top step of the Elysee to be greeted by Sarkozy?
Very funny--I'll bring them to show you!
 --- 

When will you be back so we can catch up? Also who is your right hand on all of these initiatives? I'm copying Lona so
she can work w your office for a time.
 --- 

I'm very happy to discuss. Can we get a decision made? B5
 --- 

Have you seen the memcon of my T/C w Shaun? Pls review so we can be prepared tomorrow.
 --- 

Thx.
 --- 

I also suggested an Ian Paisley call to Cameron.
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

Former Dep Secretary of State John Whitehead has a private sector group working on water. Pls be sure he is contacted
as part of our planning.
 --- 

Pls add Billie Jean King and find out from Maura exactly what she is doing for ECA and wants to do. Tell Maura we should
have an event for all of our cultural and sports envoys to acknowledge and thank them.
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, January 31, 2010 4:43 PM
'mchaleja@state.gov'
Re: a couple of powerful quotes from foreign media which we highlighted in our cable
 --- 

Thx.
 --- 

I was out but upon return, did not find a faxed speech. Can you track down?
 --- 

I now have it. Thx
 --- 

Ok
 --- 

H <hrod17@clintonemail.com>
Sunday, January 31, 2010 8:54 PM
'gordonph@state.gov'
Re: NSS invites
 --- 

